all
right let's do this
thing
so
okay all right so when doing the
schematic on um how should I start
oh you should just add the Pico oh yeah
okay so you make everything correct in
the schematic but then the footprint is
just the headers all right that that
checks out
so all right so let's look up pic w
how do I find it
is this a user I feel like that's a User
submitted that one looks way nicer than
this
one but this is a Pico W but is the the
pinouts are different
right but this one looks so much nicer
whatever whatever so if we just search
for this hash or
what but see that's not what I wanted to
do all right maybe I'll just use
this wait why did it open the
footprint
okay so uh but so um can
we do I have to add a package
oh here we
go camera modro wait hold
on dude what the freak
this is all junk though I mean not
really
but how do I just um
wow that's pretty cool
actually development
board wait there's probably a million p
pages
does it have a footprint though that's
the
question you data sheet that's pretty
nice but I want to know so how do
we hold
on sun is it's too bright I got to turn
away from
the when I was green
Greener I you know
what since I'm refreshing I'm just going
to open up Kad we're going to see what's
going on with
Kad wait I thought I did open up 8.0
dude hell
no wait let's look let's look
up there's probably a hella bug fixes
though oh yeah dude it's so annoying
that they they don't have an updater
though it's literally 1.2 gig
whatever we'll just do it
hopefully it uninstalls eight and it
like okay wait let me just watch a video
on easy Eda
[Music]
all
right at wholesale we take a unique
approach to teaching the art of
film wait Nick rolls is that the actual
guy
okay no it's Raymond Hill but you know
what it's
probably okay wait let's see if this
works I had a lot of requests to make an
easy Ed tutorial
oh that's kind of annoying for now I
don't really give I show you how to get
from idea to circuit and PCB design and
then how to order the PCB from the
sponsor of this video GC PCB there are
already a lot of tutorials about easy
Eda and that's why I never made one
myself but I gather a few tricks and
problems that I usually have with this
platform and today I'll try to make a
full tutorial start to finish about PCP
designing in Easy Eda but not just that
you will also learn how to create a
component layout and symbol in case that
you don't have that component in the
online library how to use the labels and
minimize our schematic for a better look
how to use different tools from the menu
and I'll try to explain each tool
separately what does it do and how to
use it we will also talk about preparing
the PCB for STM in service so let's see
a full easy EA tutorial and show you how
easy is to design your boards make sure
you subscribe and activate the Bell also
a huge thank you to all my patrons for
the support so let's get
[Music]
started hey friends the sponsor of this
video is GLC PCB I always had good
results with our PCB manufacturer
service and you can see that on all the
pcbs on this channel but now they also
have an S&T assembly service with a pick
and place machine for $7 come back the
first thing we need is an idea and I
suppose that you already have that in
mind I usually make task for all the
circuits on my breadboard in order to
make sure that the final circuit will
work after that I kind of make the
connections on paper and then finally
draw the schematic in EAS Eda the main
reason I don't use design spark or Eagle
anymore for my pcbs is because EAS Eda
already has all the components online
and each time another user creates a new
component it will appear in the online
library and sharing components is very
useful okay so now we have our idea
let's start with the design first we
have to go to easy Eda and create an
account if you don't have one so click
register select the username insert your
email create a new password find button
I'll Bas my example on the small radio
receiver board with the Arduino so I'll
name the project Arduino radio receiver
and click the save button now this will
open a new schematic sheet but as you
can see it is not saved yet so first
thing you have to do is to click the
save button now you could change the
title and the sheet name in order to
keep
track okay now we have to add components
on the left side we have the Creator
menu here we have the easa libraries and
we can find a few
components where the downloads
the [__] is going
on oh no it's going to do it like 10
times oh thank God
I wonder what like if you were to
compare the market share of freead to
professional CAD as opposed to Kai CAD
versus professional ecad I I I
wonder please tell me it's going to
overwrite
everything but I usually don't use these
components from here for for more online
components click the libraries button
and here we have all the components Now
search for any component I start with
the mega 328 chip okay now very
important about these results as you can
see we have the components divided in a
few groups first these are the
components that you can find on the LCSC
and you will see a shopping card next to
it so if you want to make sure that you
will always find the component to
purchase use the components that have
the shopping card next to them okay to
the next group we have the SD components
these are components that can be used
with the new S&T soldering service from
gccb if you can use this component for
S&T service with the pick and pl machine
the S&T IC will appear on the side of
the component name if you use a
component without the sndd icon GC PCV
won't be able to solder it using the S&P
service so have that in mind finally we
have the user contributed group and here
we can find all the components created
by other users but if you use one from
this group make sure that you check the
dimensions and the PIN numbers with the
data sheet of the component because
there might be errors made by other
creators okay so this is my chip I
select that and place it on the
schematic now I do the same for some
resistors capacitors and a qu Crystal of
16 megaherz make sure of the package
that you want for your components in
this case I will use some 0402 resistors
and capacitors and you can see the pack
P AG the value and more information in
the search menu for each component all
circuits will have a ground connection
and at least one power connection for
that go in the E library on the left
side and here we have the ground and the
VCC icons so drag those to your circuit
the parts of the circuit that have the
ground icon connected will be connected
together but if you have two ground
icons and you change the name of one of
them they won't be connected together
anymore now let's make a few connections
from the tools menu select the wire
which is the first tool click the first
point and then to the second point and
now these are connected one to each
other as you can see I'm using multiple
ground icons so all these wires are the
same okay now we have a few connections
but we need more with a lot of wires the
schematic will be ugly and you won't be
able to understand it so for that we use
the labels so now select the netport
tool from the menu place that on the
schematic and now double click the name
and change it I will name this for
example reset now I connect this to the
first point then I copy the port with
contrl c and contrl V if you need you
can press the r key to rotate it and
place it on the other side now make the
connections and now this part of the
circuit is connected to the pin pc6 of
the mega chip without any ugly wire so
using these net ports we can create a
good-look schematic even if we have a
lot of connections as you can see here
in one of my schematics for a project I
have a lot of connections but we can
still read the schematic because we know
that the TX is connected to the TX D2 to
D2 and so on okay now I have the basic
configuration of the mega CH I never did
that but I I I'm meaning to do that cuz
I mean that's is how they all do
it square and divide my schematic into
multiple parts for power for outputs Min
and so on but now what about if you
don't find the component that all right
let me see let me see how good is
this hopefully this
didn't okay
cool
um let's just go to a fusion uh Fusion
models in here
here
um it's called pan tilt okay so in the
schematic I forget how to do this you do
a yeah you do a to add something
oops how do you get for
[Music]
what does this mean
oh is that the debug
thing dude why does it keep showing me
this I don't like
this ask co-pilot
actually
whatever for
what the
hell where is
this why does that never work
okay
holy okay wait I'm going back to eat e
Eda okay so now all right so let's just
do it in here what project am I on
all right so now I got to go off stream
and find my password and save it okay
hold
on
e
e e
okay I think I'm
good so
uh let's just use the website version
cuz now I have it
open so let's just assume this is right
so then you do L for label or something
like that I don't know what that is how
do you
label polygon what the Fick
okay let's just okay so the Strat is
that we let me just close all this crap
okay so what do you do
here um okay so now what do we we need
to go to our
bomb I'm going to close this too
dude what the
hell this doesn't say anything also alt
click is going to not do what I want I
have to be careful of that
okay
um so yeah so
this but the thing is okay so
all right I'll be right back but it's
not clear
what you need to do
here
e
for
e e
okay the thing that I kind of want to
get right about this is I actually want
to make sure that the current that we
sort of do the simulations kind
of all right well let's just get this
right and I'm just going to get on my
paper and I'm just going to do it on
paper
okay
okay so we have the
Pico and we have
have um we have four digital
pins for
steppers we
have
two
digital
pins and technically we only need to do
one because we kind of want the fly
wheels to same at the same speed but I
think it's definitely better to use two
different ones for
escs then one for solenoid
mosfet and I think that that's it now
the main thing is coming up with all of
the actual components that we are going
to
use so maybe
it's and you know what's interesting
is okay well let's just start going
through it
so um let's just get every part that's
probably a good first
step wa terminal blocks
okay
so uh I don't know how to do the
terminal blocks because basically in the
schemat well specifically for the
schematic
[Music]
um you just
make two labels called + 12 and
ground and then later on like I don't
know how to do that then for the stepper
motor
drivers the the part that I'm planning
to use cuz I already have some is these
pcbs that I ordered and they have
whatever the standard breadboard pin you
know mail pins on the bottom that you
just plug into the breadboard and I was
hoping to use that
so um similarly with the power
connectors do do I just for the motor
drivers um
make it like a a collection of I I don't
know how to do
it oh so there specifically is a two pin
terminal
block so if I just look up
terminal oh yeah
it doesn't show me a picture though
right I think actually in all right
let's keep Kad open just so that I know
what's going on I'm pretty sure in
Kad uh it's going to have to do this
thing all over
again
um yeah see what's nice is that oh yeah
screw terminal 1 by
two I like
that that's exactly what I
wanted so I would put this here and then
I'd and then okay and then this is how
you do nets is uh I mean I don't know
how to draw it add wire add bus I don't
know the difference between wire and bus
yet but
um Junction no connect oh yeah Q is no
connect I remember that
label
l so this is going to
be is this how you do it or is this like
bad
practice oh wait and then ground how do
you do ground there's a special way for
ground right oh wait Global label I
think you need to do this
but then this just signifies oh wait and
then you do X to flip it around and then
here
now oh wait is it
P and you use
zero oh okay but this literally
is what's the the difference between
making
okay is there even such a thing as that
so let's look up screw
terminal I wish they showed a
picture oh they
do barrier terminal
blocks screw terminal
blocks these naming is like I don't know
how anybody does anything this is
impossible
man yeah
excuse
me I think it's
that okay well we can't be hung up on a
whole bunch of crap so let's just get
this in
there I mean this seems
good so now is there if I do p wait P
doesn't
[Music]
do okay wait so wait I don't understand
this added into its own
sheet so if I go over
here can I just copy it
I think that that does not copy what I
think it
does I wish it was just an
ID that's kind of oh wait can I I
probably search that
up but so if I go to pan tilt do I do a
no a is a zoom in
thing Place component and I just search
up this
by him Ash then the problem
is there isn't ratings on these so
hat wait how do I go back to the
wait wait how do I go back to the
library thing please tell me I didn't
close it okay
cool wait if I if I fix this this be
Raspberry Pi p w
and he's using
the I said it's just do
it there's no way this thing is that
wrong I mean the pin out is certainly
right uh and if we go here okay wait if
we go
to new do we want to do new
or okay so if we save
this how do we make
a
okay PCB
save to existing
project we're just going to call it pan
tilt I mean it's all one board but so
now how do I link them I don't know if
they're linked
yet the
Json oh wait I didn't want to do check
Nets I want
to import changes now keep going apply
changes
okay so now we
have this and they're not labeled at oh
they are labeled okay
cool that's pretty
nice and
honestly I wonder how hard it would be
to just like completely redesign this to
just start over I mean
like how much work really went into
making that
but you actually want to keep it modular
well there isn't I mean it's it's really
only if the part breaks I feel like okay
so we have one part down now we want to
add another part
right how do you file Place symbol okay
you do shift F okay it's just for search
so
now we
need uh
see it's kind of weird
because okay wait so okay so how do we
just look at I don't think we can get a
3D okay so I want to do a new project
actually now that I'm
like let's just do a new schematic we're
going to shift F we're just going to do
Pico and I think one of them had a
3D didn't one of them have a 3D model
associated with it is
there yeah that's
it PE W no
pins how do you how do you full screen
this I want to see this thing okay so
this is the Pico W without headers and
it's a pretty good model but how do I
use
it do I just attach it
to apply
no modify model refresh remove favor do
I just double click it place you can't
place it
but can I add I can't add another column
to make sure that it has a 3D model
associated with
it what's a part that maybe has a 3D
model like a 402 resistor or something
like what what's like a really common
part is this a 3D model
oh you can't you can't even move these
out this thing is not as good as people
say it is
I wonder if it's better in the desktop
app but I kind of doubt
it damn dude ecad is like not as good as
I don't know ecad is kind of all over
the place it's mainly just that there's
so many
parts okay okay let's just cancel this
what about the common Library if I add
like a 603 resistor okay let's just yeah
let's literally just do this
this is the whole PCB now wait where am
I this a new project is that what I
said oh cool okay so yeah so this is
sheet one so now I want to do file new
PCB I feel like this is not the right
flow because this is kind of an awkward
flow uh but then then you save this to
this project okay save it and then you
do all I is that what it was and you say
no keep going apply changes and then you
set these as the default and
then okay so what we actually wanted to
do okay but is there a 3D view
fabrication tools 3D model
manager I mean that is what that looks
like and they
so wait oh here we
go okay nice all right so this is
starting to make some sense you have
this big ass
PCB and you have this tiny little
resistor
here uh so wait so I want to go to pan
tilt save it now I'm going to go to 3D
so wait two what is 2D 2D is okay 2D is
like that now how do I get out of here
okay right and it's just flat but that's
fine but so yeah so this is not the
right footprint for us because all we
want is
um the
the the headers I
guess so I don't know what those pins
are
actually right I think that that's what
these are and then D+ and D minus are
probably the oh wait these are all USB
pins I
think can we look at the
Pico w data
sheet does this have a table of contents
okay nice
oh what the
hell dude an is literally cancer
bro yeah it's a f it's literally a
fusion file and what is this doesn't
even say what this
is or is this or did they do the PCB
design INF Fusion I'm so
confused I think that's the same
link not that PW is designed an
Allegro import script or Plugin
okay I I'm just curious what happens if
I open
this I feel like it's because I didn't
unzip it I don't know if that's true or
not but like
I me there's only freaking two files in
here I don't understand
how let me try that [__]
again what oh well it did open up a Pico
W where the hell is this stupid
thing my guess is that it doesn't work
okay so wait so then how why did this
thing get associated
with I don't know why extension it never
gets shown
it's like I just want to know the file
extension don't try to hide basic
information from
me okay a BRD
file so I think what we need to do is
like
um is there an import let's see
okay file import non Kat
schematic all right I I don't really
care
downloads this this
okay
interesting wait but what if I go to the
PCB thing how do I switch how do I get
out of
here oh you have to go here and then
here
okay and then we import from
here so they give you a PCB but they
don't give you a schematic but that's
like does it really even
matter also what is it doing is it is it
somewhere I can't tell if it's done or
not let's try to import it with easy Eda
just see if it does
anything well I want to do it in the
random one so in here file
import image
dxf is that eagle
what's up
bro I just want to dude honestly Eda is
like it's like the Wild West it's just
like so
Random all right so we have a wait I
thought we have a test can't
we okay I want this and uh okay let's go
here but then I also want to open up the
PCB I want to file import see this is
what's weird where are they seeing this
import
thing open file open okay Eagle I think
it's
eagle please make sure that eagle is
saved in Eagle Six and
higher a little Excursion dude I love
this Chinese language I mean they have
way more important [__] to do it's just
so
funny uh downloads Pico Pico Pico Pico
import
file probably just
this let's see did did Kat even do
anything with
it that's that's the crazy part see okay
like CAD file formats
even though there's solid works and
fusion and all this
stuff there are step files and step
files pretty much work wherever you're
at but the crazy thing about this is
that people are designing these
electronics and it's just completely
locked down in terms of exportability
I'm sure it's better now like those
tools are like pretty old or I don't
know I get the sense that they're old
donkeys but I'm sure that lots of people
use them but
like I get the sense that they're old
donkeys okay
um so so what the hell are we doing
here okay so this is the thing so now I
just want to start to change this to be
we are going to
add okay so these so these flags
these flag okay so these flags I okay I
feel like all of these work the same way
in that there's just a a a a notion of a
a global label net label I'm pretty sure
that
that's what's the difference between pin
and net flag
but there it all goes back to spice I
mean it all goes back to spice actually
I wonder what their simulation is like
do they even have
simulation I'm just
curious yeah I mean they have
it welcome back in this video I will
introduce the simulation function of
easy bro I I I joke but it's like
my Chinese is [__] I I can't speak
Chinese there are two modes in Easy Eda
the first mode is standard mode which is
commonly used for PCP design and another
mode is the simulation mode which is
used for circuit simulation the
simulation mode of easa is based on LT
spice if you have used LT spice you can
get started with the simulation mode of
easa very quickly if you are not
familiar with the simulation you can
click here to check our document
tutorial here you can learn about the
basic concept of simulation how to use
and create simulation models basic usage
and advanced skills if you encounter any
problems you can ask questions in our
[Music]
Forum today we demonstrate the basic
operation of simulation first we need to
switch I love the rocket here to switch
the rocket mouse or click here to
switch create a new
project choose an owner okay I get it if
it's LT spice I get it I've done LT
spice I don't need to walk through that
again LT spice dude I I don't like spice
man I think spice is like overrated okay
so here's what we're going to do we're
going to do shift F and then it brings
up the library then we're going to look
up we're going to go to my libraries all
no what I thought there was a standard
oh
LCSC yeah that's so cool man I mean the
crazy thing about this that's so
different than you can't change the
width of this that that is such BOGO
that's such bogus all right whatever um
I mean there's got to be a way dude how
do you you can't move this in
that's crazy how much information they
have about these parts though I mean
nothing about the manufacturer is built
into I mean that's why easy Eda really
is way better is because you have user
user
uh user Footprints you know just a a a
database of a bunch of people's hard
work and I mean it's
like yeah it's kind of silly I
mean to have no thingy verse equivalent
for a cad until now and then the other
thing is obviously which is even more is
the parts having the parts but so we're
going to go into here and we're going to
screw terminal and
then and it gives you a tiny little
thing here so three pin two
pin and I like that it has that and it
has the little shopping cart so I can
actually buy it so look and they have
look they have 15,000 of
them see I don't know is it smt can I so
if I click on this it should open
up wait it might open up
Chrome I might have to set my wait can I
just copy view data sheet this going to
open in Chrome I
think or it just doesn't do
anything okay whatever so let's place
this
thing so we do this then this is can I
rotate it okay I can rotate it
okay wait let's let's do it let's do it
the I mean no this is the best way to do
it I mean I kind of wanted to practice
the
uh okay now if we
um oh wait I did first off I did this
back I mean it doesn't really matter but
uh
wait if I wanted to do this it would
be be like this right I
do yeah you would do this right
and then you would put a wire between
these why does that feel wrong that
doesn't feel right but whatever okay so
we go
here import changes oh save it
since I'm all using the common Library
Parts
uh okay this is what I wanted actually
okay I didn't even think that but let's
just do this yeah check the
Nets what's wrong with this incomplete
net
what a actually should contain two or
more
pins
uh honestly I don't really get it I
think I think that this is
fine wait let's close this tools design
convert schematic to PCB just keep
going yeah that's fine okay so now oh is
this did they did they recommend I do
this so okay so this is literally just
the whole thing
wait how did I design the PC thing yeah
so what I actually would want to do I
think
is is you
um you do VCC
here okay then you put a wire here how
do you do wire I thought wire was like
oh yeah it is you put a wire to here oh
you I guess you
can't then you do
this then you do this
and then you do this so now I go design
update PCB please save your file dude
why isn't there sh autosave I think I
just oh you know what I don't think kite
cat has autosave
either oh and it didn't give me that
warning anymore I think or maybe that's
just cuz I don't I don't really know
what happened but so now for this
PCB we should just be able to do this
is that it I I can't tell if there's
actually a trace
there I'm guessing there
is does it tell you I I forget does it
tell you if you haven't satisfied this
schematic it probably
does I mean it knows where the traces
are okay so let's save
this and and let's look at the
3D so is it going to it's not going to
tell me that there's like an
interference there that's actually
pretty
wild I wonder if you can like take this
file and check if so let's
file can I export the PCB as a c as like
a step
file let's
see wait can I look at their docks dude
they actually have oh control K search
oh nice dude they actually have good
docks oh
nice wait there's no talks wait what
happens if I go to
jongin oh they don't have it
either all right fine
uh easy I'm just going to Google
it yeah because I'm pretty sure that you
can export a step
file
wait wait if I go back to this
wait what if I just go to the
PCB oh there you go okay see that's kind
of awkward but um yeah that's fine an
obj file I'm fine with so just put it
here
nice dude electron bro everyone's on
this electron
thing okay so
um uh why is nothing replaced electron
we need we need rust bro okay export
extract all so now I want to just open
this in
um oh this is a material file I didn't
even know that was a
thing can't I just open this
in print
3D dude that's so
cool wait can't I just associate oh nice
downloads this
this okay
cool and then what is
that wait can I open this with oh that's
funny can I open this
with just vs code or is is obj like a
um no it's text it's readable for
[Music]
okay I don't know what what it is
but launch 3D
Builder did they write their own CAD
yeah that's so
funny that's hella
funny okay
thin
walls is that wait but where is the
resistor that's sort of my
question okay so wait uh okay let me ask
chat gbt
then if I have an obj file and well
basically I exported my PCB as a 3D
model from Easy Eda and I intentionally
made a circuit where uh two of the parts
intersect uh so there's basically a
resistor inside of a two terminal screw
a two two pin screw
terminal and basically I wanted to know
and and I was able to get an obj file
and I I wanted to know if there was a
way for me to programmatically test for
like this
intersection so o so what is an
obj it's a mesh so it's not like step
because step uses like nerbs or
something right step step file has like
geometric Primitives I think
dude some some guy came in here and just
ranted about how [__] brutal step
is but they leave it in because it's
like yeah I mean it does suck oh yeah
see these B I I I don't know what they
are but I've seen them I mean like I
yeah so they they are
different uh so we can close this so now
we want to check so wait but actually
what if I just open this thing up in my
3D printer I'm pretty sure if I just
open up bamboo and I tried to print this
but it well maybe what we'll do is
we'll God these things are such side
quests but it's like I just want to know
what's going on like I feel like if I
don't know what's going on I'm just like
upset like is that resistor actually in
there or not I I don't even know I mean
I could just change it but uh so what do
I want to do I want to go to this
downloads and then I want to open this
thing and it might be like okay uh yeah
that sounds fine so you okay unable to
print
multiple okay okay so one thing that's
funny is that there's color in this mesh
so it's more of a graphics format but
then I want to look at the bodies is
there oh yeah objects so there's just
one object
51 non- manifold
edges okay so it fixed it oh cool oh
nice okay so flat planes are definitely
not manifold that actually makes sense
right how do you actually
test for if okay okay so I just want to
ask I loaded the obj into bamboo studio
and it's said like 51 non-manifold edges
what does that mean and how do they test
for it because I actually did make a
note that there was basically what
looked like a flat plane that
represented the uh the top face of the
PCB and when I clicked uh you know the
repair button in bamboo it went
away yeah I just want to know what is
it non- manifold Edge is a term that
refers to an Edge shared by more than
two faces or an edge that belongs to
only one
face
ah an edge that only belongs to one
face wait but I don't understand an edge
that is shared by oh more than two
faces
yeah yeah that would be weird
right how does that
work yeah yeah yeah yeah that's really
strange
okay okay but I
don't all right so whatever I feel like
I have run that score so let's just move
this out
here and then view
the 3D
again and it's there
cool uh so now is
there um so I know simulation but
um I wanted there was a guy that like
EMF is there actually I
think Fusion might have
are there any ecad tools uh that are are
there any EAD tools that will basically
let
me simulate whether or not
the uh TR like the the heat but also
whether or not it will it will break
because I
have a circuit where parts of it need to
have like 15 amps going through it and
the I know that you have to be care with
a PCB that has that much current going
through
it dude Anis bro what the heck
solid works Fusion has it oh
Kad open
EMS yeah I saw
that but I never watched the
video but I I don't know if this
actually
does Boston
that looks pretty
sick whoa
[Music]
BR that's
insane 600 G wait 60
gigahertz I mean I guess the free it's
kind of frequency independent in a
way cuz that's probably simulating like
a nanc or something
open source man energy management is
that what that
is but oh it's a design antennas and
pcbs all right let's just design the PCB
I'm I'm wasting freaking time we just
want
to and then I'm just going to do it
on yeah the in yeah well the layout will
help with the soldering but like not
that much
and then the other thing I'm kind of
worried about is I know that the mosfet
legs can handle the 10 amps because no
one would design a package where the the
part they're making can hand has
a maximum current of lower than what the
package can handle so but I don't know
if those terminal like IC holders can do
it like if you just look up uh like
uh okay wait I'll just ask chat GPC what
it what to look
at if I want to
um what what should I look up on Amazon
for basically I have a mosfet in my
circuit but I if the mosfet burns up or
something I want to be able to replace
it what is that part that you put in
your circuit so that you just like push
it in
what should I search
up
T is that a that seems like a highly
specific
thing I mean that seems like a high that
that seems like pretty specific because
let's just look up mosfet
holder yeah in a way that's
like better cuz they already designed it
okay what was it called t
o oh T
socket yeah right so like if you look at
these
it doesn't actually tell you the current
rating
typically
yeah and if I just look up mosfet
socket that was the one we just looked
at
I don't
know that's that's the crazy thing well
what if we just Google
to220
socket and we just look
at but like maybe I'm
that's such a crazy thing to say is
still just for
humans that's so interesting okay so
wait I see sockets 177,000
items a socket adapters yeah dude the
the part classification is so
interesting okay wait so we can we sort
by
wait wait this is the part series is a
TT
t
s what if what about 220 is 220 in there
220 is not in there so I don't know what
series means Packaging
the interesting thing for me is like why
okay
so wait okay wait let's just take a take
one of them and see if it actually has a
data sheet
because I mean these things must have a
specification
of current
right yeah yeah here you go see contact
current rating 1 amp that's what I'm
saying bro
that's what I'm saying
man so then like what if I just search
up 10 aamp tto
so 10 a two wait
t220
socket yeah see this
exactly and the only reason why I'm
hounding this is cuz
like actually no
all let's
see presumably the screw terminal blocks
are rated for high current I'm pretty
sure they are I think I actually
remember looking that up on
stream
uh so what else is in the circuit all
right can we just like okay so can we
just do this bro I'm I'm getting so
distracted but this one presumably does
it have a data sheet actually
wait does it say anything about it where
even is
the wait this is so
Random does it say literally anything at
all about this thing
but they made a video for
it why does it look like such a
yeah I feel like
like when you touch something to another
like two conductors together what the
Yeah Yeah when you touch two conductors
together I mean it really is
surface
area is it hard to get high current
through like uh connectors that
aren't uh bonded with metal together so
they're basically just like pressed on
so like sockets for
instance what what are the variables I
think it's
yeah contact resistance pressfit or
socket connections inherently have
higher contact resistance compared to
solder
joints gold has low contact
resistance the contact area the total
surface area where the connector and the
pin make contact determines how well
current can flow
yeah how can you
calculate because when you run current
through a wire it turns to heat because
it has resistance so yeah so okay
would Fusion allow me to do a basic
simulation where running basically too
high uh a current through a a trace
results in like a bunch of
heat and I could see that in the
simulation wait what thermal Sim
does it do then like def oh like
expansion
and wait so then what thermal
simulations does it do is it just like
expansion and contraction or do I don't
know
probably if you manually Define heat
sources
that's kind of
wild okay here's what I can
do
LTM oh solid
works okay wait let's look at o Open
EMS uh heat we have a heat thing
I feel like it's just
yeah e
uh what makes doing these like Electro
thermal simulations tough because if you
if there's like if you
know okay for let's just say that there
is basically well okay contact maybe
harder but let's just say you have a
description of basically all of the
contacts and all of the wires but
specifically their geometry so you know
the cross-sectional area
or I don't know basically what defines
how much current and how much resistance
there is across each part of it and then
since you know the material you know how
much heat is generated for a given
current right so then isn't it just
solving the heat equation basically
being a comp like bounded by T most
people can't do like High Fidelity uh
PDS on their laptop but other than that
it's like not
that I don't know
ohms law and Jewel heating however there
are several factors that make these
simulations complex and challenging
especially at High Fidelity coupling
between electrical and thermal
domains in electrothermal simulations
the electrical and thermal domains are
coupled yeah dude nothing's ever
unsynchronized bro the world just
synchronized High currents generate heat
due to resistive losses dude it's so
funny how everything's connected like
that that's crazy obviously that's what
happens if you just think about what's
really going on in the wire how high
currents generate heat due to resistive
losses Jewel
heating which in turn increases the
resistance of the of conductors further
affecting current distribution the
feedback loop makes it necessary to
solve these equations
iteratively dude I I do want to do more
modeling man I I love modeling I I I
never got good at it though and there
was never like
a I mean we just didn't have a good
multibody gooey like gosh but now there
is I wonder if I could try it I mean it
is probably well I don't know in some
ways you got to write code might as well
just write the
code AS temperature changes the material
dude it's so
crazy it's so crazy that they brand
randing right now
is
yeah
whatever okay so what I want to do so
what I to do I don't know if I can do
this in Kad or in something
else um but the simplest thing would
just be
literally
um I mean because there's only a few
like there's only a few geometries that
you would need to get like most cases
like okay
so I don't know how to do the meshing
but I feel like I could generate well I
don't even know how I would specify the
geometry
really but like I guess I would just
pick one to start and it would just be
like a rectangle that lies on the
because that's that's pretty much what
it is and we just say we know the trace
thickness
and and uh cross-sectional are
area
so okay so yeah that so you would you
would need to know also the substrate
but that's also
like ambient
temperature yeah can't you just set that
can't you you could probably just make
the decision that which okay for to
start because the the question you're
trying to answer is just like how how
hot does the trace
get I don't know you always want the
feedback that's the problem is you
always want the feedback but going so
high fidelity it's just you're not going
to get anywhere so you have to like
assume that the environment stays
constant and so that you're not actually
adding heat to the system which is like
obviously not conserving whatever energy
but
in this case I still feel like You' get
an accurate enough stimulation to like
kind of be able to tell
because well I guess the real question
is when do things break
like okay I guess the real question is
like when do things break in
[Music]
um yeah it's it's really you want to
know at what point point do the traces
break because what I was thinking of it
to respond to uh environmental factors
like the feedback
between well like okay let's say you
were to only model the temperature of
the trace and you ignore the fact that
you're
actually dissipating heat into the
environment which is
causing hotter uh
what am I trying to say I'm trying to
say when current flows through a wire
there's always some resistance loss and
you can use whatever Jewel heating to
figure out how much heat
is produced
so if you assume the resistance is
constant in a okay wait so can I just
ask it to
like
um right some
simple description of the differential
equations where we just want to
know how uh basically how much heat is
being produced in each part of basically
just a wire that has a constant
cross-sectional area and it just goes
for some distance and all all we're
trying to know is
how uh hot it gets
and
um yeah
add some
water
e
for
e e
right CU
like basically I
mean I mean okay what does it give you
is the question what it gives you is the
fact that you cannot use this resistor
and you can use this uh screw terminal
if you have the heat you know you can
know that thing's going to burn man it's
not going to
work okay so what's the point then
um so obviously it takes super long
but
uh it would also be cool is if like
let's see edit
symbol electric I don't
know but it would be cool that um
wait why isn't the good
picture this picture is so much
better
wait okay whatever you just look up the
day she how hard is that
[Music]
okay so what do we what do okay let me
just draw it on paper bro it's not even
that hard we're just going to pick okay
so I forget do the escs have to
be
on i squ c is that what they do or no
you know what I'm thinking oh yeah and
eventually we're going to need four pins
oh and actually did I ever test
whether no I think that these are on
different i squ c because they don't
want name
complex right I'm pretty sure that's
what that
is on the Pico uh there are like I think
multiple different iqu C I don't know
what you call them buses channels
whatever because there's like I i2c one
and i2c z i see on the pin out um is
that so that you can like have the same
cuz I have two sensors that I think have
hardcoded addresses but that means that
they're the same address
so whoa wait did you guys see that what
did that say bro that that was so oh
wait oh wow it shows you the memory
now dude that's actually kind of sus
well it's not sus but like I tell it a
lot of stuff put it on
stream
Okay Okay cool so then and then four
pins for the um for magnetic
encoders I can't believe I never did
this before you just actually draw out
the electronics of the project
um you can wire it together
but in some
sense dude that's why it's crazy that
they don't have a dude we like we need
dude that the Bay Area totally
needs uh a
uh I don't know it's just
like there needs to be a PCB Factory
that's good dude
cuz it's so nice to have like
the the benefit of miniaturizing all
these freaking jumper wires is
huge it's huge it cannot be understated
it's the same it's all yeah for me the
thing that like prevents me from doing
any work on a project is like it's like
oh [__] I need to go grab this thing and
work on it I need to like move like 10
different things and it's all like this
and it's just like such a mess so once
you just have a PCB a power
supply um it's all over
man that's why in some sense actually we
probably should build
in maybe we can like only use like one I
don't know lay dude for me doing any
layouting or routing work it's like this
thing is this is like a hard problem I
don't I don't really want to solve
freaking uh placing and routing
um luckily the auto router seem to for
all my simple designs seem to be be able
to find a a answer pretty quickly but
uh okay so all right so what is the plan
now the plan is
to let's Okay so we
have one and zero on this side so maybe
we could just use well we need this but
that's fine we can go inside so this
could be on the wall of
the
um okay there's actually hello
Electronics
then yeah the electronics part man I was
not giving it its due it's actually
pretty oh it's like actually a lot of
work
because well you just need to make a
bunch of decisions that you didn't have
to before
so
um let's just uh let's just do this and
I'm just going to go through and add
these
labels was that
n is that what I want though no it's
these
okay so let's just go through and add a
bunch of
these so those are just no these are i
squ
c um I don't know do I have to I
probably have to do
that okay then uh so
that's so wait which ones are i squ c
let's just do
this and then we need three volts which
is
important we'll get to that um
okay
um so ground
oops then we might as well use these for
an so wait how many ice s sees we
need it's the magnetic
encoders so
that's okay wait why don't we have these
be the
okay so wait but you need four pins so
this
is I just need so I mean I I know it's
not right but
um can you not have
complex okay and then oh wait you need
to add more is it n or what what what
was it you can't okay that's
weird I feel like this would be the one
of the most common things and you have
to go and click for it just a little
confusing for me okay so now that we
have all the magnetic encoders and I
don't know why it's naming it for but
this is 15 so we can make these the okay
so so it goes the
encoders honestly are the encoders any
maybe with better software the encoders
could actually do something
like basic control logic just like
a the annoying thing though is that
it you need to have some correction for
it doing dumb stuff like be aware that
it's going to cycle through because well
anyways we'll we'll get to that I have
been putting that off seriously so the
encoders the
do the E I think the ESC is just take a
normal p i mean they're all I squared C
but but yeah okay so then let's just do
the
uh ground oh wait no
um
ESC
steppers and solenoid or
mosat all right so so this is going to
be easy um
do you have to tile the grounds together
they're all tied together internally so
I don't think it
matters so okay
so these two pin this is going to be the
ESC esc2 oh but the thing about this
though actually is okay so now I'm
starting to get what's going on so you
draw these like bounding boxes
right you draw one of these
rectangles and then you say
like Okay so let's just do these
steppers for
instance
oh so then you name this
like yeah you you name this like um what
what are they they're like dur
plus dur
minus step plus and step
minus and then you okay can you not oh
yeah you
can yeah because the only thing you're
concerned about here which you can
easily get confused by is that this is
just
about
um getting the schematic down
so but then what do I want to do I want
to like wait does that make a new
rectangle I mean I guess you do
but then this could just be smaller I
don't know I I really the the time I I
did this last year I was basically just
cheating the whole time it was like
not um so then but what happens if you
have
to I mean is it encouraged to make this
like yah and then just prefix yaah in
front of all of them
I mean does it really
matter and then you do
uh wait
yeah okay wait it it is
for no but you know you know I'm dumb
I'm dumb as hell I I wasn't even
thinking about the actual circuit is cuz
I don't have it in front of me uh these
go to the driver I wonder if we what
happens if we just look up what is it
a49 what is it
A4
988 does this actually return
anything How do I
can
I you can't copy this edit
more she yeah it doesn't work on the
yeah that's why you want to use it
online oh my God what is going
on is it this
oh [__] the hell is going
on Project sheet one shift F and we want
to
say A4
988 the
hell oh yeah you just can't view it like
this it's just not going to
work now I want to open this thing up
maybe that just like because they don't
have it I don't know you data sheet how
do I even copy any information about
this thing also wait this is like way
too many pins this is not even the right
part I'm actually kind of
surprised oh but look at how
many dude this is so cool I mean that is
what it is that's the pin out I'm almost
positive I mean what else would it be
I mean that is so cool and I mean you
got to just realize what this is like
how to make a new symbol I'm pretty sure
it's just a matter of drawing these
like that's a nicer footprint than that
cuz it's because it's
labeled dude that's so crazy
but this is
the I think that this is the this is the
breakout oh okay yeah so this is what we
want
actually so we need two of
these and then we just
um right and then we just okay and then
you just make a wire to that so you
still need so this isn't like wasted
work like that is what you got to do
um oh yeah and I don't think I've ever
run this off
of uh Power before but I'm pretty sure
if you disconnect it it just like starts
running
actually no cuz when you flat like in
Rust you flash it from the
start how does it do that boot cell
thing like just
like the data is probably not
overwritten it's like probably still in
there Maybe not maybe little bits of it
are
but wait what was the Run pin I never
tested
that is that as easy as you think do
some oh no
way bro whoa that's fun okay in this
video we are going to load and run
fourth on the Raspberry Pi Pico now the
fourth that we are going to run is mcris
Forth by Maas kooch who has pointed
forth to many dude those stack languages
are trippy as hell I I never got it
but I never like well I I forget how it
works okay uh all right
so uh let's just figure this out okay so
now we
have Okay so
what did it tell me it told me to like
add the Pico all right let's just get
all the parts on the page so this this
represents go these long wires that go
to
the but is that how you do it I don't
think you do it with labels I think you
I think you need to add a specific
symbol that refers to like a four pin
thing okay let me just ask GPT
I'm in Easy
Eda and um as part of my schematic I
well in the thing I'm building uh on the
breadboard I connect this one meter
cable that goes to a stepper driver or a
step connects a stepper driver to a
stepper motor uh what is the proper way
to
represent the stepper motor in um easy
Eda
oh yeah actually this is kind of the pro
Strat you should just look
up I mean I don't think this is going to
work
actually
oh yeah see there oh that's actually
kind of
cool see this is the pro strategy you
just look at what
other dude okay that's that's the thing
that I I got like totally caught up by
CAD this kind of ecad is actually way
simpler than you think it's all just
like drawings it's not
like there isn't like that much going on
under the hood that you expect is going
on so what is
this terminal blocks is that the best
way to do it is just use a ton of
terminal
blocks what alternatives do I have to
blocks is the way
to
connect what what are what options do I
have to connect this one meter cable
that well the end of the cable is like a
four pin I think breadboard like pitch
uh
um um female uh like black housed
connector uh but then I also have this
thing that inverts it so it's a male to
male or it's a female to male converter
and
um what just what options do I have to
connecting this to the
PCB I probably talked to GPD so slow but
it's cuz I'm so
dumb for connecting a four pin female
breadboard sty
connector so if I just look up four pin
mail
header I I I feel like this search is
like not as good as it could be
like USB for pin
header mainly because there's no 3D can
we go to Kad I feel like Kad might
actually have more 3D cuz the problem is
the okay what they lost when they they
basically connected oh these are all
user
contributed they probably have 3D
models yeah yeah see but it's it's like
a shitty 3D model I mean the cool thing
is they have the dimensions I guess okay
so what we want is four pin oh so let's
write let's write this
yeah one by
four see I I don't know it search is
just kind of goofy but so that's what it
is yeah that's exactly what it is how do
they solder so little though so you
place this so this is
the so that's what you
do okay wait let's look at the PCB so
you save it
we get a
project wait Project what what's going
on here oh wait oh and you go to the
pantel oh wait no no you know what I
want to do cuz I feel like these aren't
linked I got CU I didn't know how to
converts uh no keep
going I like that it does this Auto
sized rectangle thing that's very nice
okay so we have the drivers and these
you know we could just get our calipers
out and verify that this is right but
what does this footprint actually mean
that's the problem is
like can we can we do the 3D are those
holes I don't really know what those are
see they're nothing though right
like so what does that footprint even me
what does this even mean
dude are these holes I don't I don't
even I even know how to tell if these
are
holes no I think we want to be like
this and then the stepper drivers they
just go like I it literally just goes
like
this dude it's crazy I've never ordered
a PCB before obviously this is going to
be a project where I order a PCB I don't
know what I'm like should I do it should
I not obviously I should just know what
it's
like
e
for e
I wonder what delivery is though
hopefully it doesn't make me add the
building information first let's just
make
uh
um I'm pretty sure
this is a valid
circuit and it's a valid PCB if we dude
I hate that this is like oh close other
tabs is nice that's
useful
wait okay
um wait what happened here
Oh
weird okay oh so this is not what I want
this is the one I want so now how do I
buy this I just look at the 3D view it's
the stupidest circuit circuit possible
it's literally just a res surface Mana
resistor oh and a and a incorrectly
rotated terminal screw
block is this going to work can we just
delete all
traces wait X how do you how do you do
how do you make it is it this
W what the
hell and don't you want it like don't
you want it like
this okay so now I save this and then I
look at it dude without 3D it's like to
worthless how do you
[__]
okay no I think you have them all the
way over
actually I'm pretty sure you actually
have
them I'm pretty sure you are supposed to
do this and then see how great would it
be if you had normal CAD stuff where you
could just say this all right put this
in the middle I mean it's it's it's not
very useful that's why it doesn't exist
but like just for my you know you know
it' just be kind of nice to make sure
that this is like kind of okay
fabrication oneclick
order PCB smt where they make it for you
check
DRC build Time 1 to two days
Dimensions oneclick order
wait but it might open up
Chrome yeah so that's what I was worried
about
so so that's why okay that's why I just
have to stay on the website version so
hold on let's just close this some
changing up been
saved like what
okay
so here's easy Eda let's refresh this
page who gives a
[__]
okay test is it new PCB no I'm pretty
sure it's
this okay so fabrication oneclick
order so this is just going to be so
what am I getting here wait do I have
two things oh no yeah so wait hold on oh
do they they give you the parts
dude that's so nice it doesn't tell you
who's making this
thing is that just cuz like it doesn't
matter wait
select
what what is going
on yeah I'm so confused
like the quantity
oh
wait
oh is it part
remember yeah I don't really get what
that was
about is this the
resistor yeah that's so um that's so
interesting so you're not supposed to
really
use this so when we go back to our
schematic we're going to go back and
delete
this because we need to go find
uh what was that 0603
okay does that that's just a size
though okay so what if we just delete
this and just go to the
library and go
to
resistors do whole resistor is there
just an um
okay I just want the most basic 0603
resistor in uh in Easy Eda what do I
search up in the
library if I search for this am I going
to get what I I mean that's a
logical oh I'm going to mess that up so
much all right so we just look at this
wait this is an LED array that's what
I'm saying man what the
heck okay does this just let
me and J oh oh that's so interesting
okay so what this means is that they um
that they can make
it doesn't support
smt so then why can't I filter by
that oh there's value this is the worst
interface dude who the hell made this
thing all right
so okay wait so we're just in the
resistors
thing wait can I just look up for
1K oh my
God
okay the crazy thing is I just don't
know like is this the best
one it just seems so arbitrary is there
a cost they don't even say the
cost okay
so
whatever we're going to attach these
okay now we delete this stupid thing we
save
it and then we go to PCB Test
new and uh we update
it
design design import changes
yeah okay wait where
oh is it connected I just want to delete
them oh is it Wire yeah it's
wire okay so now we save
it then we go to oneclick order PCB smt
I'm pretty sure that's what we want
generate G one click order we want five
of them we want green what did it even
say dude do they have the flexible pcbs
I really want to make those stretchy
pcbs they have flexible but they don't
have the stretchy
ones all right yeah f44 is perfect we
honestly need one layer is that cheaper
I'm actually
curious what the heck is going on
here okay wait uh calculator price
$2 does it
update it's the same dude what if I do
four so then should you always just get
four
uh this is so
goofy
um what does this mean
how many different designs in your file
separated by
v-cuts as one delivery single
PC so this literally costs
$2 dude when I made my own
pcbs that making one board took like 8
hours man I was not happy to get paid
freaking $2 for that
that's crazy man what the heck it took
me all day to make a freaking board
that's so
cool and how long does it take wait
really two to four business
days wait do they this is where they
build it right wait but I didn't select
where I'm
at oh wait I don't I wanted to save that
actually
coupons okay wait free okay coupon free
assembly no way dude they give you free
assembly dude this is like getting
makers hooked on crack
bro oh you can't get
both oh [__] they're going to start
um next three days they're doing like
tree
trimming it's got to be done but kind of
my
know kind of a soundwise peace of
mindwise it's just going to keep going I
might move to the garage
honestly it's so nice these next few
days it's like the end of summer I
really want to enjoy it while it
lasts
um photo confirmation what
out oh wait what what added
cost is that this so if I get the
stencil wait but oh this
okay dude then you might as well just
get the assembly no wait but this
bro I'd say this is my first real
[Music]
this is going to
suck e
D the crazy thing about this too is that
it's like it's like it's almost easier
just to order it and spend the money
then even solder it together which is
crazy like cuz the the correct thing to
do is to at least test that it works by
soldering it together but like if you
kind of don't want to do that maybe just
order
it all right let's go back and
uh start doing the real thing which is
this
and uh this I think no I think it's this
yeah I think we can just delete wait
yeah you just delete
this
okay all right
so
um and then so wait so don't we just
want to make
this so I'm pretty sure we just want to
do uh so okay so let's just uh cop these
can we copy
these we want to just put them
right here no no no do that paste some
and they
go like
that and
then I'm pretty sure this is what you do
um so yeah so you just put a little
square so if I do this do I get
everything can I move it I can just move
it okay so let's just draw the rectangle
so that now we are starting to get
somewhere with
this okay so
now the Moe so let's draw another
square and this is going to be the
terminal block
thing I don't know how to do
this wait is R just rectangle no s
obviously of course for oh for square
okay
um okay so wait I need to kind of move
oops I kind of need to move oh my
god oh wait this select it
okay okay that's good so let's just do
this one
so I actually completely forget what's
going on
here also I guess today will have to be
the day that I finally try multi or
uh yeah but Micro stepping we should
just do the test cuz it's really dumb
that I
haven't so okay so wait now what we want
is this terminal block thing because
then we can connect the power to these
and
so what is it do we do we search it up
here I'm pretty sure we search it up
here so we do like uh connectors screw
terminal
uh dude it's like oh here you just have
to look for the P that that's
it wait Did I already do it
no yeah yeah I did end the other one
okay so this is Tiny and this is just
going to
be
okay if I have a a screw
terminal um symbol in my schematic and I
want to represent one of the pins as
being the like 12vt I just connect one
of those uh labels to it right and just
call it oh wait yeah how do I do
it dude I I want to like speed this
thing up
actually
uh do you do
that can I see how um let me just go to
YouTube and look at someone's
[Music]
schematic I had a lot of requests to
make an easy Eda
tutorial okay so he does the VCC thing
but then how do you know that it's 12
volts because there's going to be two
voltages so let's go to
this so common
Library so
now
this
this is there just a voltage one I think
there is
net flag plus 5 Vols and you just change
you literally just change it to+ 12 or
plus uh plus three or
whatever okay and then we oh then we
need
this what the
heck
okay uh yeah you do need the logic level
actually so then we're going to need to
call this so then what do you do you do
this that seems fine you take this you
copy this and then you just place it
here place it here I mean just to
finding the graph I don't know why I
have to trip out so much about it I
guess I just want to ground all the I
mean it should be tied internally
but let's see I I want to see someone
like a I want to see someone who knows
what they're doing
damn it's crazy that the noise
cancellation filter is not getting any
of this look at this
they churning a bunch of
wood you probably can't even hear it but
yeah there's a
yeah it's so good
okay
I I just guess I'm going to go get it
uh actually don't
remember uh
it's so sick that Amazon lets you browse
without logging
in actually makes it way more open than
Instagram and Twitter it's kind of
insane is this the whole PCB actually no
oh wait I want that
picture is that the
same is that the same as this uh
oh my God it's so
bad okay
um so wait so we got to flip this
around okay wait
dur
step sleep
reset enable Okay we have to assume that
wait let's just make sure that yeah so
this is this is the this is the same as
what I
have um
okay so what do you tie reset
to wait so let me get oriented
then wait can I see
okay wait so dur and ground
are right there
right wait D
oh
wait oh wait these are
the yes so we do need four digital pins
for the stepper because yeah each of
them needs a step in a pin I totally
forgot those go to the computer yeah
yeah
yeah oh I'm so
dumb
e
e e
I mean it's crazy how like how like hard
I
mean it's literally just you just
describe a graph and it it's it's ends
up just being so annoying but so the way
to do this
is just do a
label I mean mainly I'm just not good at
it but it's
a and you just do this and you say
um this is going to be
tilt step right and this is going to
be uh tilt D not that hard and then this
is going to be uh yaah
step uh yah D and then you just come
over here take these
two copy them put them
here take these
two copy them and put them
here okay then yeah these only need two
pins but you do need to ground them
right
so so the ESC so what you want to do for
ESC wait we can full screen this
again the ESC is just how do we want to
do it because I think the
ESC no I'm pretty sure the esc's are
female so what we want to do is just the
same um not that but uh we want to do a
shift F and then we want to look for
[Music]
um okay so what do you do is is it just
connector anyways I think it's just like
one by two O2 header or something male
header I don't know why it's
so so this is
female right so is that what we should
use for no no no no yeah we want we want
the exact same so wait actually just to
be like I don't know consistent in doing
this
um take these just copy this and then
shift F search that again and then just
change it with
two how's
that why is it
female and why isn't it doing the C the
high dude honestly
I'm still kind of
shocked I mean like this is not
uh oh you know what is it I
mean yeah man this is I mean it just I
guess that not that many people use this
thing I mean you just want to be able to
text search in
this where is 1 by
two oh wait no male 1 by 20 male 1 by
two I'm dumb okay
place this thing wait 2
point oh maybe that is
different okay so then this is going to
be an
ESC so we just
need yeah and then we just need the
other pin to go to
ground so just copy the ground wait so
let's uh yeah let's just do this
copy ground because the third
pin oh wait no but we need to actually
match the
package right I'm pretty sure let me go
look at the escs
oh
actually I'm pretty sure what we want to
do well okay let's see how do we want to
do
this so this is the
ESC and
yeah if you connect it on here just like
so so this so I added so I bought um
these extenders so they're they're like
the female side of this or the male I
don't really know oh the female side and
um the thing is this is the problem that
I had at the time was that I had no way
to plug this ESC into the breadboard but
then now I think it's more about length
cuz if we look
at
well let's
see so I mean this is it with everything
taken
off and and this is the other side
so it's kind of a janky setup so I don't
know extending the length of this is a
little bit
janky but the question
is well for
tilt I mean that's the thing that's why
we can't even order this PCB today
really is cuz tilt is not
designed
yeah so we'll probably have to hop into
CAD okay but
um I still want to get this done because
then
[Music]
um I can go solder it but I have like a
I have like an actual layout yeah so
okay so the goal of this is really just
to lay it
out
but we kind of do need to
decide whether or not to extend the
length of this
thing okay so right now the assumption
is that the PCB is just like dangles
behind
the bolted in thing which it's pretty
boneheaded but I feel like we should
just do it so in that case okay wait
what are they called xt60 or
something so can we just look that up in
this oh
yeah oh that's sick and you can buy them
so they just go into that the
PCB that's that's so nice that was nicer
than adding a
resistor okay so which one do we want we
need well
actually yeah how do we want to do this
cuz the other side of this oh wait but
this is only because I had stranded core
I think these went straight to the power
supply right so the question is actually
what does that need to go to
so what is this this is the
ESC
um yeah so what we actually want is a
male oh wait we can't just change
this oh my
gosh so let's undo undo so um what we
actually want
is um
great yes the exact opposite of the part
that I would like
to I mean how's that
even I'm so confused
I
mean the main thing is I guess they
maybe don't have I feel like they would
have sales information of which of these
parts is getting the most and then just
sort by that
because cuz this is goofy as hell so
wait let's just look at header 1x3
and it's just like totally different
parts I don't get
it that that's what we want that's what
we want
right
wait how come I
can't oh
yeah so it's short on this side okay and
you do it from the bottom I guess it
sinks in cuz it's uh it's plated on the
inside of the through hole
so that's what we want
for okay that's so that's what we want
for the esc's so this is like so can we
just add a text thing so this is like
the this is like the
um two ESC computer or like it's like
the other thing and this um so what we
want here in what order is it
in it's going to be ground on the bottom
I don't know if that's standard
so this is grounded and then you have
the 5 volts but we is there a q can I do
a q how do I do a dis a
disconnect no connect flag so we're not
going to do anything with that and then
a
um what's up with this this is a um
and I'm pretty sure that this is how I
burned out my because I forget
what I don't know what I did uh and then
this is the signal so this is going to
go
to so that's esc1 so that's what we want
to copy is here this is just
ESC and then you can just take this
whole
thing and then just change it to esc2
and that's
it so wait can we just uh can we save
this and then go in here and then uh
what is it alt
I alt Al alt
I I don't know why
they okay
we probably are going to need to
eventually when we order this thing once
a lot of other stuff is working
so so see these pit this pitch is
actually
um okay yeah but so wait don't shouldn't
I have two of these oh I do have two of
these okay so we have this all right so
let's
just just do that and then power
I just put
Power what is it is it like that I can't
even tell what this means no it's not
it's like
this oh do we want to do it like
that what is this oh this is that that's
fine okay so now let's
um maybe like that
okay now route auto route obviously I'm
Auto
routing I mean that's it that's so easy
it's not done but
like wait a minute these
headers wait we have that what what do
these headers even go
to oh right wait so actually what we
want is
like like that and like
that is that right or do we want to flip
this thing
around
um wait is this net even right how do I
just delete un route all nice oh yeah
that's
perfect and this is okay wait so let's
uh save this and then look at it in
3D okay
nice I mean this is such a stupid
board yeah man the other boards we had
like tons of different
um and then one of those steppers is
just
unused wait what are these three pins
here no this is to the ESC so okay so
now we need to add the other like
um so
uh we need a um so we want to group
these together that that that makes the
most sense
so uh wait so let me just do the copy
we're just going to take all of this and
move it here and make it
bigger okay so what is the other thing
that it needs it
needs I mean
it's so hard to visualize what it's
actually going to be cuz like the okay
the end of this is just like stranded
copper wire
so but I feel like that's like a
terrible
way to do things like we don't just want
stranded copper wire soldered into the
board right we we want
connectors dude this is like part of CAD
where you like isn't really covered
by I don't know
at least I haven't really seen that many
people where they actually cover
like the the wires
themselves do people model wires in
CAD I don't
know okay so let me just ask chbt
okay I'm trying to figure out how to
attach my electronic speed controller
for the flywheel of my Nerf shooter um
to the uh PCB I'm designing uh so the
part that goes to the
um uh motor is just the three-phase so
just three wires then on the other side
there's uh like a
2.54 pitch
um uh three pit pin female connector and
that's for uh ground uh voltage and
signal for uh for the controller to go
to the controller and then the
um the uh Power it comes from a
male uh
xt60 connector and
basically um I don't know what the
recommended way cuz the thing is I think
I'm going to have the PCB a little bit
far away from the flywheel so I need to
extend the distance but then I just
don't know what connectors to use cuz
right now right now I have a a female
xt60 uh side and I just soldered some
like uh High relatively High gauge
stranded copper wire to it but it seems
like a hack to just like uh put stranded
copper wire into the PCB and manually
solder it like that I'm sure there's a
better
way oh yeah I could just add another
screw terminal block
yeah I really have to decide how long
this thing is going to be
yeah because this all comes back to what
setup is going to be like what assembly
is going to be like and so this is sort
of the
procedure
uh cu the great thing about drones is
that I mean these escs are very
optimized to for the Drone form factor I
mean it's not like it would be that much
different like this length is pretty
good for me
too dude we should definitely I don't
know how to do this but like it would be
very cool to see to do like a Thrust
thing because I have these motors I
might as well like put a propeller on
it but I I don't know how to measure
that okay so I'm kind of happy with
um but okay if we're going to do screw
terminals on the end of just added on
wire so you take these whatever
extenders and you just have to build
that and you document that uh then you
need an extension for this and
presumably it's about the same length
because these are these are both going
to the
PCB and then what you would do is you
would leave on the xt60 or you would no
you'd probably leave the
extenders
so it's not going to be in the schematic
because it's not related to the PCB but
basically we need to find like a thre
pin male to
male wait do we want male to male or we
want male to
female uh should I have like male
headers or female headers on my PCB is
there
a I mean but
I feel like then I want the male so then
I want this to
have
um
male and a female on the
end okay so it's funny because that's
not even part of the schematic but it is
so it's going to be like the
ESC
um has the um
xt60 which goes to another XT
60 which goes to stranded copper
wire and then that goes to a screw
terminal okay then you have the
1x3
female to
to uh so to uh yeah connector to wire to
then 1x3 so this is going to be male and
then this is going to be
female and then this is this part is
sort of the
PCB this the PCB and this is going to be
1x3
male so then so that's the
connection so all we have to do to add
that in I think is go over
here and so this is correct so we're
going to do this and we just
um I I think I think no connect is fine
there but so now we need uh a screw
terminal with
two so we just need to copy this
things and then this is going to be just
the uh the same
thing oh
oops actually could we just do
this okay and then I think so that I
think that's
it and we can take this and copy
it let's make this esc2 and then make
this
esc2 okay so
now oh so these are screw terminals
Okay so Let's uh let's go to this alt I
does it like is it going to like replace
everything is it going to like do the
whole world wait that's nice that it uh
swapped me over and it's like you didn't
change anything
Bozo okay so now we
have these and these go to the ESC and
maybe we want to put them down here what
does this go to again I thought I had
two of those wait what's up with the
okay what does this go to this three pin
thing I mean we haven't even modeled the
solenoid and the mosfet yet
so um what is
H3 it's so hard to figure out these
names oh
wait no no h oh H3 where is H4 oh here's
H4 okay
so the real question is
okay so maybe like
that I don't know if this is just like
dumb
so yeah this it doesn't really matter
where we put it
oh wait
yeah oh wait I think you want it no I
think you want it all the way
in okay so if I save this and then look
at a view does it
update okay great oh wait we did it we
did do it the wrong way wait we did both
of them the wrong way
oh wait the arrow bro I'm so
silly this guy does not know what's
going
on this guy does not know what's going
on um okay so now we have
this and we need to we we need to change
the uh the footprint for the Pico
because that's not that's not what we're
going to be
using
um I think you can though I think you
like because I bought initially a couple
of um
like uh Pico like a Pico W without
headers and I think maybe you can just
solder that directly to a
pad dude I wonder what they use to like
simulate whether or not the parts are
going to like fly off of it like if it's
cuz like for really like for a Mars
Rover or like stuff that's like going
under like just super high
reliability you probably want to
know just if it vibrates a lot how much
force it takes to like I mean maybe it's
just not even a concern but like if a a
part just flies off of the you know
maybe something that's more lever like
something like one of these screw
terminals uh anyways let's
uh how do you update it
while what is this
it's kind of weird that their text is
like that I guess you just have to
manually do
that is this fixed now no you have to
close it I saved it and then you click
on this all right there we
go I mean they say they're raed for uh
10 amps so we we we're good this is kind
of awkward I wish it had
like dude I wish Auto layouting was a
thing I guess everyone
does because it just looks so ugly bro
it just does not look good
okay so let's just add what's what's the
next so we
have so these are the stepper Motors
okay can we auto route this thing
now what is this oh it has okay that's
fine dude with two layers you can just
do anything
anything I mean that's not true so okay
so what's next we need the uh
mosfet and
solenoid we need the uh correct the the
a4988
pinouts uh what else do we need out of
this
circuit I think that's it right do we we
have the magnetic en code
the these are the no these go to the
stepper these go
to
um these go to the
ESC so we need the magnetic encoders so
the magnetic
encoders also will probably just be
normal pin
headers and we need to make sure all
these wires are the same length because
it's all going basically to the same
place where I I've sort of given up at
the moment of doing full 360
because I don't know you look at I got a
slip ring with a slip ring only handles
two amps and it's just like all right
let's just get something that shoots
like a normal field of
view well and then I guess we have to
actually fix the cad to do the magnetic
encoders
thing and then we need to write the code
that actually does
that um cuz at the time I did all I I
did a day where I was just like doing a
couple uh trying to sample basically how
fast the encoder is
going and I it was kind of accurate but
it was only accurate at really low
throttle
percentages um okay so let's just do
that how many pins does the how many
pins does that use actually I think they
each use
four I bet someone has I bet someone has
the footprints for this part though uh
it's probably in my GitHub let's see uh
bomb it's probably not bomb it's
probably part docks
uh stepper driver pin out bldc ESC well
what we need is the magnetic
encoder uh where's the we should make
this all one thing but it's
whatever let's just look again it was
like that
as as something
yeah
this I like that it comes with the
magnet that is really
good okay so this is what we
want so now we get to back to easy Eda
we go back to this now we have two of
these things so now we need to look this
part
up so that's the
chip right or is that the uh that's the
chip which is great but what we want is
the
breakout I think that might be it dude
it's so okay I got to clean up these
tabs
okay
so I mean that looks exactly right but
but okay but the thing is we're not
actually putting that on the
um so what is its footprint though
because you need to
or maybe you don't
but so we just need two data pins so
what are the oh it's going to be SC yeah
so it's going to be called like um enk
one uh
SL and then ink uh you know 2 SDA so
okay so we need a four pin mail thing I
guess
the thing is where do we get these I
mean online they sell like you know
those standard 2.54 mm pitched female
and male connectors of various sizes but
the thing is what do what do I do if I
want my own with with that has a
specific length and maybe even like a
yeah cuz I I basically need a specially
length jumper type
cable but that like has uh like a 1x3
female or something like that
they're called Dupont
connectors
oh not the best rating
but honestly though this might be kind
of the move the thing is it's specific
to this but I feel like if you're going
to
get 28 to 18 that'll that'll be that'll
be
good so can I see this Dupont
crimping yeah dude this is what I want
to watch making your own connections
allows you to make wires of any length
that you require with any combination of
Terminators as and when you need them
mini PV better known as Dupont are
common in hobby electronics they the St
connectors that you'll often find on the
end of the rainbow colard jumper wires
you'll need just a few things to add
these super simple connectors to the
ends of your wires some plastic Dupont
housings and some Dupont connectors and
a crimping tool to make my connectors
I'm using this simple low cost kit
you'll find a link on Amazon in the
description below first you'll need to
choose between a male and female
connector this is might be a good you
want one of these metal connectors they
often come on a roll and can be easily
removed by bending back and forth a few
times this is the one used for the
female connections and this is the mail
type they both share some similar
features hopefully you only have to do
it like this open vend will hold on to
the installation of our WI once scrimped
the open u shaped section will make
contact with the core of the wire and
then the remainder of the part makes up
the physical connection between your
wire and the device that you're wanting
to connect to once you've chosen your
connector we can place it into our
crimpers our crimpers have several
different sized recesses for the
different sized connectors you can also
remove this screw turn the Cog and
reinsert the screw to change the
strength of the crimp this lever here
allows you to release them without
having to complete the crimping action
just pull the lever upwards like this
you start the crimping by seating the
connector in the jaws of the crimper
itself the v-shaped piece should be
facing upwards and pulled back so that
it stops against this Ridge you can then
partially close the crimpers to hold it
in place strip about 5 to 7 mm of
insulation from your wire and then
insert it into the connector check on
the other side of the connector that the
wire has gone inside pain if I show you
about the crimper in the way the
positioning should look like this if all
looks good squeeze down on the crimpers
to make the first crimp I like to then
remove the connection and repeat the
crimp on the next size down to ensure a
good crimp is achieved check the
connection for these three things before
proceeding is the insallation gried by
the V section is the u-shape section now
gripping the W conductor there's nothing
I feel there's nothing more frustrating
than these loose crimps that you just
know are going to fall apart still
inside the connector if all of this is
satisfied then we can choose the plastic
housing your choice will be defined by
how many wires you would like to group
together in one connector and what
layout you would like such as in one row
or
two the male or the female part of metal
connector they both use the same plastic
housings and they're both inserted from
The Wider end of the housing when
inserting the connector ensure that the
open top of the connector where you can
see your wire is inserted facing upwards
so that this Ridge engages with this
tongue on the passic housing which will
prevent the connector from being pulled
back out of the housing
[Music]
unintentionally the mail connector is
done in much the same way SE the
connector in the crimper strip the wire
insert into crimper check positioning of
the crimp crimp the
wire because what what are we connecting
here we're connecting the
encoders so yeah I feel like I'm going
to make this
by so what is it called what did I look
up
do for
I mean it just seems like a you know if
you're in a bind and you just need a
wire of a specific length and you need
to connect it to something I mean it's
just such a pain to deal with the
uh the
wires and I don't know if
those if the holder if the thing that
you put it into this thing I don't know
if it handles like any size but this
honestly seems like
a just a nice thing to
have bro I feel like this is going to be
a of a bad electrical connection which
in the worst case can create a lot of
feat and eventually even start a fire
which almost happened at my parents
house 2 years ago and no I didn't do the
electrical wiring there that caus this
problem but I rep it afterwards so that
something like this will not happen
again needless to say having good
electrical connections in your house
wiring or similar is key when it comes
to safety which I always pay attention
to but on the other hand I sometimes do
some very sketchy stuff when it comes to
the electrical connections of my Pro
projects and thus I started to wonder
what would be the best electrical
connector you could use so I got myself
all the common ones like buo terminals
screw terminals all kinds of cable shoes
and of course Fels which are super
important and in this video I will
conduct a rather big experiment in order
to not only find out what as electrical
connector type is but also to show you
how to use each one properly let's get
started this seems like a
banger this video is sponsored by knipex
Who provided the two crimping tools that
I will be using during the
video first off what is wrong with the
way I connected a copper wire to my
project through a PCB screw terminal
well the problem is not the terminal
itself but instead the used wire type
which is stranded wire
as you can see it consists of very thin
individual conductors which come
together to form a bigger conductor but
I would think that because solid core
well let hear this way the wire is very
flexible which is great for
non-stationary projects on the other
hand of course you got solid wire which
only consists of one big carer conductor
and thus it is more stiff Now using
solid wire with this scw terminal is
completely fine and can often be seen in
your modern house wiring the reason is
that as soon as you apply pressure with
the screw the big copper conductor holds
against and thus is kept Under Pressure
properly for a long time to come but if
you try to do the same thing with
stranded wire then you might have a good
connection at first but eventually the
thin copper wires will give in and lose
pressure which brings us to the big
problem of electrical connectors contact
resistance you see now that there's less
pressure between that's crazy bro wires
and these crew terminal there's no
longer such a good
electrical has less pressure between the
thin wires and these crew terminal
there's no longer such a good electrical
conductivity between them and thus the
so-called contact resistance increases
since we know that resistance equals
voltage divided by current and power
equals current multiplied by voltage we
can come up with this formula that
states that the power loss equals
resistance multiplied by current squares
so if for example the contact resistance
doubles the generated power loss doubles
as well which by the way gets dissipated
as heat with more heats the electrical
connector can potentially warp and thus
increase the contact resistance even
more this can become a the Vicious Cycle
in which not only heat gets generated
but also if the trended wire becomes
completely loose can lead to the
creation of tons of Sparks and in the
worst case to a fire needless to say we
want to avoid that so why not just
simply solder the thin wires together to
create one big conductor and insert that
into this crew terminal well sadly this
is also a no-go since the soft soda will
also lose its applied grip over time and
thus enter the Vicious Cycle from before
A solution to this problem however are
such wire ferals which with the help of
a bit of external pressure close around
the thin wires and thus turn them into
one solid conductor
to use them you simply need to know your
wire cross-section in my case 1.5 mm
then select the fitting ferel according
to the color scheme remove 10 mm of in
oh so maybe I should get some some high
gauge stranded too I mean it's not like
this needs to I don't know
maybe having lots of different types of
wire does seem
useful maybe I'll get some high gauge
stranded put the ferad on place it in
the tool and off you go and just like
that you got a perfectly screw terminal
usable wire but of course screw
terminals are not the only available
option when it comes to making good
electrical connections there are also
Vago terminals cable shoes simple
soldering and also butt connectors whose
name I didn't made up Vago 221 terminals
are my favorite and can be used not only
with solid wires but also stranded wires
since it comes with a spring mechanism
inside which constantly applies pressure
cable shoes on the other hands are for
more special see I wanted to 3D print
that I I really wanted to design and 3D
print that so that it could go around
the nibs of the old
um DC motors mechanism Insight which
constantly applies pressure cable shoes
on the other hand are for more
specialized connection tasks like
connect can I how do how do you connect
this up V
2 everyone is talking about dude I got
this is the Wago 221 inline connector so
in this video we're going to take a good
hard look at these all right one
terminals are my favorite and can be
used not only with solid wires but also
stranded wires since it comes with a
spring mechanism insid which constantly
applies pressure cable shoes on the
other hand are for more specialized
connection tasks like connecting to a
batter whe or for example creating a
ground plane for your moped's electrical
system to use them you simply choose a
fitting one according to their color
which once again represents the
conductor sizes strip around 7 mm of
your wire's insulation put the shoe on
and use the correctly colored segment of
your crimping tool in order to BN the
wire with metal through pressure and
last but not least we got the simple
solder connection which can be done by
simply soldering two wires together only
problem about that is that in comparison
to the other connectors so far you
cannot easily separate the conductors
from one another once the connection is
done the same problem applies to the
butt connectors which by the way get
clim to the wires in pretty much the
same way as the cable shoes and now that
we're familiar with pretty much all the
Comm connector types except maybe the
jst connectors which I sometimes like to
use when I got lot of data lines and
only left out because you usually do not
run much current with them which one is
the best one and with best one I mean
the one with the lowest contact
resistance to find that out I got my
highly professional test equipment here
which I will hook up to all the
different connector types according to
the schematic now the power supply will
pump a constant 5 amp or 10 amp into the
suit which I will confirm with my multim
and all I have to do is to measure the
voltage drop as close as possible to the
connector so that the majority of the
voltage drop will be from the contact
resistance instead res care about then
all we have to do is to div measured
voltage by the currents and we got our
resistance and with the explanation out
of the way I started the experiment
which pretty much had me curious all the
way through because I actually had no
idea which connector SL connection would
be the best except maybe the soda
connection since there we are basically
fusing two metals together with the help
of another metal now taking all the
measurements took me around 3 hours in
total because I actually used three
different wire Pairs and also three
connectors of the same type for so that
I can calc average value and
after all the measurements into the
spreadsheet I was pleased to see that
the measurement difference between wire
PS and the same connectors was
very connectors do a very reliable job
every time into the spreadsheets I was
pleased to see that the measurement
difference between wire passs and the
same connectors was very little which
means that the crimping tools and
connectors do a very reliable job every
time also the calculated mown value for
the 5 amp and 10 amp measurements were
also very close to one another which
means that the connectors do not mind a
higher Crown flow but always make sure
to not exceed the manufacturers given
limits and now let's finally get to the
sh which clearly shows us that the
winner of this resistance contest is the
sld connection followed by Connor C
shoing scw terminal and then Bago
terminal the two worst performing
connectors were the cable shoe push on
which was obvious due to its wiggle room
and the PCB screw terminal which was
quite a big what is that in M ohms push
on which was obvious due to its B room
and the PCB screw terminal which was
quite a big shock for me since I love
using them but keep calm because with
the average resistance of around 2.2 mm
they create a power loss of 0.22 wats at
10 amps which is certainly a bit riskier
but seriously when are you going to draw
10 m through
them wait wait but I am going to draw 10
amps through
them or at least one of them is going to
have 10 amps go through it that's crazy
to think about dude it five I mean I'm
I'm I'm going to be going like 13 amps
through them hopefully because eight
eight amps for the um solenoid which is
crazy to me that it just takes so much
current to do
that and
then
um I think five amps for both drone
Motors
so
13 dude what a good
video he just makes such good
content okay so where are we at with
this oh I never added this to the
um whatever it's fine oh wait yeah I
think I think it is this
one oh my God
okay uh so let's go back and let's just
finish this thing up this is right this
is definitely what it
is so but what are we representing these
as cuz they're not going to be on the
PCB so what is their footprint like if
we were to just save
this and then just
uh so in the 3D view what does it look
like oh
wait I forgot you have to like cuz we're
not mounting them to the
PCB right so yeah so we're not doing
that we're doing the inverse of that oh
and we probably should add mounting hle
let's
see
okay
for
e
e e
the other thing is um we need to
um
um yeah uh Power for the
Pico
luckily um yeah it doesn't have the 3D
model but well and we need a power Pico
and and fix
footprint so that should just be
like well if we could probably look for
Pico footprints that are exactly what
I'm talking
about so what happens if we go back and
search up
P wait hold
on wa can I just add this in is this
what I did
no
um this one doesn't seem to have the
USB but let's save this and I just want
to look
at okay uh let's just move these
okay so this may be closer to what I
want right see that's what I want okay
so that's the okay oh wow wow
dude wow dude yeah so that's what we
want
because wait is it
though because I just want the holes
I mean in the PCB these are just holes
right what is
this it's a
hole okay
e
e e
okay let's just finish this thing this
is so boring wait
but I'm trying to figure out if this is
really what I want to
do like
no no no no what I need to put in here
okay so let's see how do I make a custom
footprint I'll just make my own and try
to copy the pins or whatever or actually
no so wait hold on let's see how to do
this
footprint select footprint how do I make
a new footprint I wish there was like a
command pallet
there we
go okay so we just need to measure how
do we measure
it it honestly be wait it honestly be
easier to like can I
measure there is a measurement thing for
sure I just don't know what it is
that looks like
it all right
17.7
okay
okay so uh so uh so this is all we need
to do is we need
to uh place
a wait um
the okay so we just need to do it by
holes and all that it's like
a yeah so wait but this isn't going to
be a whole I want to use an existing
footprint can I use an existing
footprint probably
right
um is it
20 uh
no it's like 15
right
wait I don't know if that was the same
um oh it's six wait how how do we get
40 oh wait there is 20 why did yeah I
was looking at the wrong thing yeah so
it's 1 by 20 that's what I thought so
you can go
here search for
this um
um there we there we
go yeah so now we just place
that oh
wait so
wait we can't
okay wait let's just try to go to this
do new
symbol it found new
symbol and then we're just going to copy
a bunch of stuff
right right cuz what this is is this has
the silk screen thing right oh wait oops
how do you how do you do layer views I
think oh that's backup we don't want
that I think
they're oh wait this is it I I was not
looking wow is that is that bad UI dude
what the hell is
that okay so let's just look at get wait
let's just look
at this is the silk
layer
right so we could keep that we could
keep
that
um okay so wait what is the so the
footprint for these is literally just a
hole but then the 3D model so we need to
make our own 3D model can you even do
that oh yeah you
can oh you but you need to make it
somewhere
else
interesting
um but am I doing the soldering or not
that's that is kind of the
question I mean either way it really
doesn't matter but yeah so in the end of
the day it's just whole
so then I think that
this is right I think that this is all
we need to
use so we can just replace this with
that so it's not like the easiest thing
to do I mean it's not like the because
these are well let's let's find out so
we're going to delete
this wait hold on uh this goes to nine
so we're going to delete that we're
going to take
this and make nine all right nice so we
can save that and then we can import the
changes or alt
I okay and then those need to go so then
this is like
this and the so yeah so the 3D model
doesn't look like what it's going to
because this is going to be raised up a
little
bit so this is actually going to
be I wonder if we could make a new 3D
model cuz the thing is this thing
doesn't have headers so I don't really
get what
this
is so these also will
need IC holders but the question is the
stepper Motors actually draw like very
little current so I'm not really worried
about that they do get warm but I think
at most they draw like an amp so like
most
can most just like generic ones of these
can handle it
okay but the annoying thing about this
is I I'm doing this and it's kind of fun
but
like I'm realizing now this is not
really what the stripboard is going to
look
like well is there like just a
stripboard or not stripboard is there
just like a perfboard editor
isn't there a script
thing I think I saw someone actually
order I'm pretty sure a long time ago I
saw someone just make
perfboard on Kad and then just order it
from PCB way or jlc
I don't really want to make one
but
um but but we do
okay here's the thing we do
want to mount the the Pico onto the per
all right so it's time to start doing
this cuz I need a solder cuz it's
already [__] it's already three dude I
got to go to class six so let's keep
this thing pushing
so
um so this is still useful is it is this
even
useful dude this circuit is like way
more complicated than you actually think
it
is all right so let's add
I hate this u3 u4 thing why I just put
what if you have the space just put what
it actually
is this one got overlaid I don't even
okay
yeah okay what's what's next what's next
is let's just do the
mosfet um and what was the type of
mosfet that I need to use I don't even
remember I'm controlling an 8 Amp
solenoid with a mosfet but I don't know
which type to use and I'm going to be
controlling it with a Raspberry Pi Pico
I also don't remember the diode type but
I think it was those 1
n504 or
something but it was weird because it
says like
yeah I didn't understand this came up
like recently but I did not get
it yeah this sounds right so now we just
want to go into here and like add it
right that's all that's all we have to
do and I want to know what package it's
in but yeah it's okay so presumably it
has to do with the package so that's
through
hole oh and this is
the wait can I dude it I'm so sick of
this thing being so
small okay that is
just ridiculous
oh I love the cost down here that's so
cool oh are they sorting by
cost so now we need a f
here okay we need
a
um so wait what is
this we need to add text to all this
okay this
is two stepper two
y
stepper two tilt
stepper um y driver
tilt
driver this is
uh can I type
T oh but it doesn't okay two power
supply or I could just write power power
supply and
then we can just write 2
ESC because it goes
okay then what do we have to do with
this actually oh wait but did
we yeah so we probably have to redo this
because um I don't
think oh no actually we're good we're
good I squ see Zero and I S see one so
we're
like [__] big big chilling so let me
well actually let me delete this and
then draw a
square okay
so well I I don't remember what this out
is I think that's a no
connect I don't think I use that but
then this and this
what the
hell okay
uh do we need we need all four no we
just need dur and no no we just need and
SDA right I'm pretty
sure
for e
okay so we just add a label for
it is it this
one no it's this
this is going to
be or
uh what the
hell so wait we need to
be that
which one was that I should have made a
note six and
seven why are these different colored
though just cuz they're but they should
be fine I mean it says it so we're good
so then we just want to use the two
above it
too dude why is it doing that
okay oh wait we can just okay we'll do
this then we'll do this
but the thing is these
Footprints oh wait so how do we want to
do this we need to have
cuz they're
uh I can't remember what I use
yeah I just broke it in off the table I
just broke it cuz it's like when am I
going to need this
so yeah so both of these were done just
directly wired
in but so that means that on this side
we actually just want like a 1
by4 but the thing is we want to know
does it do that little thing with the
square cuz I think ground is usually
like
square is this
grounded that's no that's it doesn't
mean that that's ground it means that
it's pin
one so is there a
standard I've noticed in ecad that uh
the first pin or some specific pins I
don't actually know if it's pin one is
uh is like Square in the PCB design as
opposed to like uh a circle what is the
significance and is there a convention
to like make pin one ground because of
it or something
but maybe that's the right way to do
it cuz I feel like I'm always going to
forget also this wire might be too
thick I mean this thing needs like
nothing so to have something this thick
is kind of
silly maybe I could get
some I don't think you can use stranded
wire with those
crimping I don't think he said that in
the video but I don't think you
can so what does that even
mean so wait so when we go to this
display footprint unnown where do I
select edit symbol
it's crazy how little this is
uh I me that's that's
nice
um how do I change the
footprint oh wait
oops oh yeah okay so wait can we just
is this the
footprint oh these are these are all my
footprints oh okay
okay how do I edit the
footprint do I have to oh I have to make
it and then I have to search for it
okay what the heck
there's got to be a way can't I just um
can't I just take the 1x4s because this
is literally what it's going to be edit
symbol
footprint just take this footprint
name do this
thing search for
this I don't know which VM this one I
guess and then let's see
here so wait so wait wait VCC is
one
nope wait so wait I don't know what that
means but ground yeah dur we don't need
in this so this is going to be one
two 3
four and so there we
go so now but is that that's not going
to be this one either so wait I want to
just do this and delete it
and watch it move the thing I don't know
what that's
about okay so now we should be able to
save this go in
here uh design import the changes
the wait hold on can we go back to this
thing the pad number wait what
happened BR I thought I saved this
thing wait
dur what is GPO G dur
GPO and out are not used didn't I say
that so this is one two 2 3
4 and this fails or
something is it still
red can you just delete
them I don't think you can delete them
but but yeah but this is what we want is
we
want a female connect the male is on the
PCB and you just plug it
in so then what okay so
then it doesn't like you do
this because you have to
have right because just Auto assign them
to something
random wait what if we just change this
to
four it's red still but
like wait
actually this one didn't even didn't
even take my
change if I do update footprint I'm
pretty sure if I go like this it's just
going to yeah it just resets it
so so I think the best thing to do
actually is you don't even
you don't even do this you just
um you just do
this or take
this and you
um yeah you just say um
and then you um then you say uh yeah you
then you just copy these
two yeah I think that's it
oops I just copy this paste it and then
you delete these two and then you take
these two copy
them is that connected I can't even
tell okay so now we should be totally
fine okay so see
now wait what is this
yeah okay
right what does this even get me I mean
it gets me away from a
breadboard but I'm trying to figure out
what the perf board is going to look
like the perf board is going to be kind
of brutal so wait what are these so okay
yeah so these just get red from the I
don't know what these X's
[Music]
are what are these xes oh they're in a
keep out or
something I don't
know are there more X's I don't see any
more X's maybe it's only for those what
is
this the hell is
this this is the Y step can we just
dude what
so how do I want this to
be with the arrows let's do it like
this like
this add three of them I don't know
maybe we should put this one up here is
this the power one I'm pretty sure
that's the power
one then what dude these names is there
any way to see a name for this
thing wait okay if I click on this whole
thing maybe there's a
good I don't
know what's going
on what's my
GW okay
[Music]
um so I feel like the best thing for
these though is actually you do
something
like like this because you can go
through but then so is it
this take this and then you just yeah
see that that's kind of better
we need to check that that's right but
that seems better because this is all
stuff that we would maybe want to
control like we might want to
dynamically which is actually kind of
why I mean I don't know who would want
to change micro stepping modes but you
might want to do it so now we want to do
this and we need to fix these but for
right now
yeah
okay and then you move what is it is it
this why why do we have two the two more
are for the of the
sensors so yeah so those are kind of
better to put
um when was that that was a long time
ago okay
um so what is this this goes
to what is H3
H3
is oh the escs okay so yeah so we went
the esc's towards the bottom I guess
oops we got a
theme uh so this goes to
ESC as does
that so maybe we could
do it like
this what are we missing we're missing
okay q1 this is the fed and oh the FED
is not even being used yet what is this
H5 okay so this is the magnetic encoder
yes let's take the wait let's take this
this and this or this and me just move
it way
in
oh
w that's so
annoying
um let look at the
3D so these go to the stepper
Motors uh oh maybe we want to put all of
that on the
bottom let me go get what I actually
have
e
e e
okay so here are the actual perf boards
that I
have thing is in a way stripboard is uh
easier and actually I could just use the
uh I could just use that because I have
literally a breadboard the question is
how
like it's like a it's like a mix between
a breadboard and a perf board but I
don't know what current those things can
handle these are
presumably I don't know maybe it's the
same I mean it's probably is the same so
then those
uh CF board breadboard
I don't know where I got
them yeah I guess they're kind of like
this oh yeah let's do solderable
and they're gold plated I don't know if
mine are
goldplated are those
tied why is that
does it tie plus together I can't
tell okay
no I want the
that didn't
work yeah female header yeah 20 female
header maybe that'll
work oh yeah there you
go yeah header ster Raspberry Pi the
thing is is
this why is it 2 by
20 do you split can you split it in
half why are they all 2x
20 is that 2x
20 doesn't look like 2x 20 but it also
doesn't even look like
20 yeah I don't I don't know what the
hell is up with that
can I just specifically look up 1 by
20 yeah see this is exactly what you're
looking for for a Breakout
I think we have one of these but does
this have a 20 if it has a 20 it's
probably
the yeah 1 by 28 pieces
yeah let's just look up 2.5 oh wait hold
on
for e
oh wait what am I looking at is this a
better let's see does this
have it comes with jst as well
but it has way more ratings I'm going to
cancel the other
one e
okay but um
um okay what what the heck am I
doing so I'm getting this
too or not that but uh wait hold on
I don't think that this one comes with
[Music]
the 20s that'd be
surprising you don't really need 20s you
just need to line them
up it makes it easier though
you can always just use one extra so
what does this have four
68 yeah so if I want to put
in e
all right so let's just look at one of
these
pcbs like
this okay so there just a [__] ton of
they probably just use jlcpcb man I mean
the
same
stuff okay wait these are all the small
ones are there bigger ones I thought
there might be be bigger
ones cuz it's not as big as I
thought okay so the biggest one is this
big
which is
like let's see does oh it has number oh
no that's great it's great it goes up to
X
so what is that
thing takes so long though but yeah we
can do
uh dude I could have figured that out
I'm such a dumbass all right 24 I forgot
that X is like the second to last
um wait third to
last why is it third to last um
so we would really wouldn't be able to
use these actually they're not big
enough I might as well just use the
breadboard that's got to
be if you use a bunch of solder that let
me go get that
e
okay so yeah so this makes my my life
way
easier you see that cuz this then I just
have to lay out the
uh breadboard
which I sort of have
oh
crap so in order to is there just a tool
for breadboard
layouting dude [__] fritzing
because if we do it with a
breadboard if we um
okay well let me just do it with paint
or TL
draw I honestly you don't see the
difference they both do the exact same
thing to
me where's
the okay
so this is the the
board we have the Pico
here we have the
driver the
driver what else do we need so then
these are going to
be um or wait wait
wait so then this goes to
there this goes to here then
this is going to
be these dots are going to be wait what
does this mean this just means two of
them but these These are going to be fe
uh male these are going to be
male and then what else do we need we
need so these this so now that's the
steppers are done
oh the other question actually though
is how big these holes are we need to
test with some where is my
uh
e
e e
okay so the great thing is 16 gauge
solid core water fits in great fits in
perfectly
so I think we should be able
to do this most of this you wouldn't you
won't need 16 gauge wire for so we're
actually going to need to plan that
out
um so we're going to want voltage
well let's see maybe we put where do we
need the 12 volts the 12 volts needs to
go to the the stepper motor
drivers the stepper motor drivers and
the
esc's so if we put the well I don't know
how we're going to get a screw terminal
into this thing let me go get the screw
terminal e
okay so let's see it would be the best
if it bridged the Gap but yeah and maybe
we could just use a three no but we'd
have to cut the legs off but
maybe oh
yeah there you go then you get
three I maybe just do it like
just do it like
this dude I want to use fritzing but
it's freaking paid for now it's so
stupid and I'm not going to support them
because maybe this is the best
way yeah and you just use that side for
ground okay so here's what I'm thinking
so on one side you have the screw
terminal and it fits into the bread
board and then you have the 12 volts
there so then you can have cuz the thing
is if you think about it we're using
three volts to go to way more places so
we should really have three volts here
and maybe we could do maybe we could
just keep them separate we could ground
these and then we could have this be 3
volts and then this be 12
volts because then it goes like
that that
ESC ground ESC ground and then we also
need the pins for that though so
maybe well you need the that's the thing
is you need the pins for everything I
mean you need the the Pico maybe the
Pico should be in the
center maybe that's a good
idea maybe you do
like pico in the the center I don't even
know if you
can let me go get a Pico
yeah I don't see why
not she just put this in the middle
and I put 12 volts
there um oh but it kind of makes it
annoying to connect to it no but
actually it'll be fine cuz will be
raised up by the
um so then you could put the
um the steppers
here we actually do need to count our
pins basically because we have
60 and we need to make sure that
everything
fits um
yeah and then we have seven so this
should be 7
20 um the block takes up
two um yeah maybe this will be 12 volts
but the thing is we can't really do that
and the reason why we can't do that is
cuz I don't
think that the traces on the back of
this I I I'm almost positive that what
we'd have to do is we'd have to strip a
big long wire and just increase that and
just go along with it with solder across
the whole length of of the thing because
otherwise it's just not going to be able
to hold the
current or at least I don't know maybe
I'm just going like way too overboard
with this but technically I feel like
these aren't supposed to be able to take
10 amps
so what what all do we have we
have
encoders and the encoders
should be near the
Pico it doesn't really matter where
this the only thing is that they
don't oh you could do no well could you
I guess you could you have
like SDA
VCC ground and
then so yeah you just tie them
together
um cuz those are going to be four
pin little female thing is there really
nothing besides fritzing that would help
me do this
damn having a current requirement is
actually so much more effort than you
think it's going to
be okay I'm just going to do it on paper
again I wonder if I have graph paper
whatever
okay this is the peak all right we're
going to try to just lay it out just get
something down with the
Pico at the top like we already
do
okay so this is going to be uh + 12 wait
actually yeah and then this is going to
be so then this
pin and this pin is here and this is
ground and this is ground or
whatever so
then 23
so then this ends at
30 and this
ends
40 so this one has 65 or 64 but this one
only has
60 so we have only 20 pins left to do
everything
and what do we need to do
well we need the power connector
so I think that's the only way is you're
going to strip some real thick wire and
just like and then you have to Shield it
I
guess all or you could just make it real
messy and just go directly there so not
actually put it on a rail see you only
need to go to four
places yeah so then you like go up and
around so this is like this you go up
and around you'd have big thick wire
there and then you'd send one of these
up so
here another one up to these to
here and this could AR it could Arc so
it could go over other
parts damn this is
like when you're actually designing your
own
it's so much harder than copying other
people there we go okay so the P's at
the top I don't think I don't know where
the
other stepper drivers are but
I mean maybe we just don't need it to
be on a flat C I feel like I do want it
to be on a PCB like thing
so
for e
where ass up
oh wait but you would
need or yeah no you could and then
so I think the esc's will connect
directly so that I can do the thick wire
thing and then the um stepper motor I'm
just going to go over the rail because
like I I don't think they draw that much
current so so now these come from
here and
then you probably still need to do this
why oh because the
solenoid yeah so where does the solenoid
go so now you need the
fat okay so here's the
fat power goes
to there the gate goes up to there and
then the ground goes here so you need to
do this thing here like this so you need
to
expand but actually how do you do that
I mean the thing is we haven't even in
the actual
PCB there's no consideration to current
but the thing
is what's going through this Trace
here is going to be
like dude I don't know how other people
do wiring at high current cuz it
like this is insane I mean how big does
the the traces need to be heck a
big e
yeah so wait
um the usual PCB design current will not
exceed 10A but some products are
designed with power traces and the
continuous current can reach about
8A considering the instantaneous current
and leaving a margin for the entire
system The Continuous current of the
power traces should be able to withstand
100a above today eite will introduce to
you four methods of running 100a current
on the
PCB the first method trace on the
PCB if the current of 100a is to be used
the copper thickness of 4 oz can be
selected the trace width is set to 15 mm
double-sided Trace dude why do they
always
be selected the trace width is set to 15
[Laughter]
mm oh my gosh but 15 M double-sided
trace and a heat sink can be added to
reduce the temperature rise of the PCB
and improve the
stability the second method binding post
fix several binding posts that can
withstand 100a on the PCB or product
shell such as surface mount nuts PCB
terminals copper posts Etc
then use terminals such as copper noses
to connect wires that can withstand 100a
to The Binding posts this allows large
currents to travel through the wires the
third method custom copper bars it is a
common practice in the industry to use
copper bars to carry large currents the
fourth method special PCB process some
special PCB processes can easily achieve
a small volume over current of more than
100a but there are few manufacturers
that can process
[Music]
it today's video is sponsored by PCB way
let's make an old project even better
this right here is a very old project is
very popular we've made hundreds of
these bus Parts already for the headways
headways are very popular among the
audio Community because they're cheap
and they can put a ton of power I once I
once shorted out a cell a single cell
generally above 300 amps they're sagging
down to
2.91
Vols wa oh my
God oh my God
that's insane I mean it's crazy that it
literally becomes molten metal do like a
battery pack like this for example 64
amp hour eight cells in uh parallel well
you get the idea you can get thousands
of amps in here obviously
um you know they they do sag and so what
they're trying to do in the audio world
is trying to make a very stiff pack a
very stiff battery pack so that the SAG
is minimal and that way they can put out
a ton of power right so we started with
this design and uh it work really well
except that it had one drawback at that
time I was talking to a few of these
guys from the audio world a lot of them
they don't know what they're doing right
and so they couldn't really explain it
to me what it is that they needed and so
now I am starting to understand what
they need that whole thing about
creating a stiff pack you know none of
these guys could articulate that to me
and so this design is not the best one
when you're trying to do that right and
the reason is because even though these
can carry quite a bit of amps like I did
some tests this this bus bar can carry
500 amps this is not the best way so let
me explain to you there's eight cells
here and they're all in parallel now
those eight cells go and transfer to the
next eight cells and then to the next
eight and then to the next8 so all the
current is trying to go from this point
to that point and then from this point
to that point from this point to that
point so what happens is that it creates
a hot spot right here right because
electrons are not going to go around
like this and then come back it's going
to go straight right here so really
what's seeing the brunt of all the the
uh transfer of electrons is this right
here these four little spots and when
you look at the termal camera you will
see that this section right here gets
hot and it's because of these eight
right so because you're trying to make
it the stiffest pack possible then you
need to be able to most efficiently uh
transfer those electrons from cell to
cell and this design here is going to do
that and I'll show you um because the
way this is this is designed then
there's four little connections here
that connect the entire pack but when
you do it this way this way now the
cells are arrange slightly different
they're in parallel sets like this the
long way right so there's one set two
sets three sets four sets and so now the
connection doubles in area right because
now the connection is not four little
Pathways to connect to the cells now
it's eight because this cell will
connect to this cell and this cell will
connect to that cell and this cell will
connect to that cell so the current
essentially goes from here and then it
transfers down here and then it
transfers here there right and it does
that eight times and so now by
rearranging the cells in this
configuration now you just increase the
pathways you doubled your Pathways of
electron uh of the uh of current
transmission right and so that is why
this design here it's going to be a lot
better than this one and so what I done
is I've updated my design to allow for
this also I added the ability to put
these little blocks in here because then
what people do is they put their cables
in there and uh they just sync them up
right here and they just use an Len
wrench to uh put them in here and then
that way it's a lot easier than making
ring terminals that require you to have
a uh you know like a criming tool and
all stuff and you know it's just so this
way it's a little bit easier some people
are using these and that's way but you
don't have to you can directly Put a
Ring terminal on here here here you can
put up to eight cables and that's what
these a lot of these guys are doing
right because they need the less amount
of sag in their system right so let's go
to the drawing board and I don't know I
did to design this board that will make
it a lot easier yeah this is what I want
to
[Music]
see all right so here is our drawing
here and I think he might be an easy
both together how funny is that that
he's using easy easy Eda but he's in
he's being sponsor by P has the top
plate and the bottom plate the reason
for doing this is that it's a lot easier
to order one file and one print uh
instead of doing two right and so this
you know one and you just break it in
half and then you use the top portion to
the top and the bottom to the bottom
that's what it works so there we go uh
let me explain here what's going on this
is the bottom layer right and if it's if
you get a 2 oz copper layer when you
print these then it'll do more than
enough to do 1,000 amps because now it's
thicker copper and like I explained
before we have now doubled the amount of
Pathways that that the uh the uh current
has to take through right so now this is
this is going to be even a way bigger
stiffer pack now it was able to do 500
amps on now
okay I think I'm going to make food
right now think now's a good break time
five hours in and I swear I have like
done nothing today it's all just
like remembering what actually needs to
happen I think a good plan is to let's
see what time is it it's already 4: I
have hours that's good all right I'll be
back
[Music]
e
e e
okay I'm finally back
exactly what I didn't want to have
happen
1 oz copper way before for a long time
but to get the most the stiffer pack
that this design will allow us to do it
this way right and of course these
little things here are for those blocks
that will allow you to use two American
wire gauge cable you stick them in there
and then uh you don't have to do ring
terminals of course this is just an
option if you want to use this they're
going to be there to use them but then
uh you can use ring terminals here these
right here are for people that are are
not going to use this battery pack uh
for audio equipment for audio use right
so there's less uh lower performance
applications of this battery pack and a
lot of these guys are going to want and
put a a BMS which is like a battery
management system that is based on a uh
solid state right so basically like some
transistor based relay switch that will
turn on and off the power to this
battery and so in order to do that then
we'll use these right here these are uh
made for some uh these are terminals
screw on terminals that can handle 180
amps so two of them you know 350 360 amp
something like that uh and then there's
two on the negative and then there's two
on the positive and so that allows you
to do uh it's for a future board that
I'm going to make where then you screw
it right on top of these and they'll go
into those Terminals and and then it'll
hold the the the secondary board higher
above this whole thing and then that
board will have the BMS in there and
then it'll have the you know the the the
the main um terminals to go in and out
that the negative will go through the
BMS and stuff so that's what those are
for here but if you're using this just
for audio then you can just ignore those
uh I don't even get just mirrors the
bottom layer because we're just add
another layer to you know to to carry
the current and here is going to be the
3D and of course if you ordering this
from our pcbb way sponsor right then you
can choose whatever color you want I
this is just blue but you know Green is
usually the fastest and easiest but you
can do red um white you can get a a
white one white one looks pretty cool
yellow black black also looks pretty
pretty cool um and then I chose purple
because I had the green one and uh just
to distinguish the th000 amp from the
500 amp the 2 oz copper to you know 1 oz
copper kind of thing so these are the
ones that we're selling on Jack 35 uh
you can order this there but if you want
to make a custom color then you can just
you know go to PCB way.com and Order
yourself through the link on this video
there's a project who is this guy bro
pretty
cool heavy copper on circuit boards can
be essential for high current
applications and are useful for removing
heat during board operation but that
same heat dissipation can be problematic
when populating boards as it takes a
large amount of power to heat up the
same areas to be soldered fortunately
there are several ways to address the
challenge of soldering on heavy copper
circuit boards Rel in the design of
solder pads limit the surface area
connecting solder pads to planes of
heavy copper by using therm relief you
decrease the surface that connects a
sold pad in the plane increasing the
thermal resistance increase the time and
heat when Reflow or wav solder thick
copper pcbs have a greater thermal mass
that takes more time to heat up and cool
down during assembly the temperature
profile can be adjusted to slowly heat
up and cool down that music is so
annoying
[Music]
I trust this guy this guy is in this
video we are going to talk about
designing boards with very high current
power supplies and by very high current
I mean power supplies that can deliver
hundreds of amps or even over thousands
of amp I'm not an expert for this topic
so I had a call with steel I recorded
this call and that's what you will see
in this video I really hope you will
find it interesting and useful here is
my call with to you we are going to talk
about high current power supplies and
when we say like high current power
supplies what does it mean what kind of
current we are talking
about so 500 amps is probably where it
starts and there are plenty of Intel
processors now that are at 500 amps or
above and there are a lot of gpus that
are well above that so current
state-of-the-art is probably in a range
of about a th000 amps there are a few
companies that are doing um 100 millimet
as6 that are in the 1500 amp to 2,000
amp range but I would say the current
state-of-the-art we could probably
consider that to be around a th000 amps
wow and uh what kind of voltage we are
talking about
most of these are around 7 0.7 0.7 volts
M dude what 700 Watts that's insane whoa
that also sound is that like Aon I
haven't seen any higher voltages are
some at0 6 they are you know trying to
drive that down but the noise margins
get kind of small so right now most of
them are still in the range of 7
mhm okay so if someone like to design
this kind of uh power supply for high
currents do they what they need to be
careful about do they need to care about
like Cor or what is
important um there are a few things that
are important but um one thing is that
it's really important to minimize the
inductance between the power supply and
the as6 because that's going to result
in the number of decoupling capacitors
that you need and so first is how close
can we get the power supplies to to the
as6 that's probably the first
consideration um there's probably also
the second and third consideration um
once you get through getting a power
supply to be as low inductance as
possible and as close to the chip as
possible then after that you know then
you can start to look at other other um
effect one of them maybe is thermal um
although I think thermal is not really
the biggest issue with the power supply
itself because if you think about it you
know the power supply is 98% efficient
you know on that order in most cases
well into the 90% range so a kilowatt
you're going to dissipate maybe 50 Watts
or 20 watts into the power ples but you
have a thousand Watts dissipated in the
ASC that also has really good copper
connections from the balls into the
power ples oh so basically flow from the
chip to the flow from the chip to the
power supply then from power supply
exactly so I mean they all add together
I think you're getting a lot more heat
from the Asic into the board than you
are from the power supply into the board
so that's kind of the Lesser problem and
of course you know the heat goes the
other way too so the heat that's
dissipated in the vrm gets sucked up
through the balls of the Asic also right
and goes out to the the cooling system
that's sitting on top of the Asic so it
kind of goes in all directions some of
these boards the boards themselves are
water cooled and the devices on the
boards are water cooled but but not too
many of them I mean we're just starting
to see that now vior was was I'm looking
at the possibility of building on
package vs in fact they did it right
they actually do offer on package vrms
and that goal is really just to to keep
going along the thought that says that
we need to get the vrm as close to the
Asic as possible to minimize the
inductance so basically you don't use
like you don't design this kind of power
supply by yourself you place a module on
the board close to the Chip And that's
generated and then you say like Water
Co so you say Water Co boards or pcbs or
or Water Co Heats or what do you mean
both both infected P test we're actually
working on water cooled printed circuit
boards now very small ones for our
probes um because we have very high heat
concentrations actually in probee heads
and how do you get the heat out of that
the only way we can get the heat out of
a tiny little probe like that is liquid
cooling so you'll see actually P test is
is going to come out soon with water
cooled print circuit boys so the water
flows inside of the PCD um yeah we're
actually running two parallel paths
right now one is to have water channels
embedded in the heavy copper inside the
circuit board and another one is to
bring copper coins through the printed
circuit board to a backside manifold and
which way is going to turn out to be you
know Optimum from a cost performance
standpoint I'm not exactly sure um but
we actually looking at both of those
options and when you get to these high
power systems that becomes really
important too is how do you get the heat
out and mostly it's going to be water
cooling so is it like normal water or
like some kind of special water I mean
there's there's um liid think of it more
like an antifreeze right so there are
there are chemicals in it but it's a
liquid cooling system and so it's not
like it's not going to like cause
corrosion for example or no no because
the water itself is is um you know
isolated inside the channel but right
now a lot of computer Boards of water
cool the Asic itself you know it's
pretty common to have water cooling
systems for those and they circulate
water and they have a radiator you know
in the front and then they got big
cooling fans that that blow through the
radiator so that's kind of common that's
what I thought but I I never really knew
that you can float water inside of PCB
well bet you have to and what it is that
they say necessity is the mother of
invention right so so you do what you
have to do of course Intel is looking at
other directions too Intel is looking at
actually putting the power supply onto
the Asic and if you put the power supply
into the Asic well that's about as close
as you can get right so you power up
chips like I don't know which Volts for
example yeah exactly okay um whether
that's ideal or not I don't know I mean
at TH amps even 12 volts is almost 100
amps right so it's it's still an awful
lot of current that you got to move
around and now you're moving that around
on the package um it could be more
beneficial to get the voltage up which
is why you're seeing 48 volts now and a
lot of these high power applications
it's to get that that current down and
also since the the power supply input is
a negative resistance and that's a term
that people struggle with but think
about it if a switching power supply has
a constant output power and high
efficiency then the input power is
constant also and that says that if I
raise the voltage and have the same
power the current had to go down and if
I have a current that goes down when
voltage goes up it's a resistor but it's
negative and that becomes really
important because negative resistance is
actually the core of an oscillator and
that's that's something that you know
people studied it for a long time in
fact it's probably one of the most
researched uh doctoral thesis topics is
the middle Brook criteria negative
resistance oscillation so inductance on
the input side of the switching
converter will tend to oscillate as a
function of the negative resistance they
are way out of my depth
hi it's Twitter question time let me
know leave it down in the comments down
below if you want me to do more of these
I do of course um follow me on Twitter
none of that X rubbish follow me on
Twitter and uh you can ask me questions
anytime and I'm always answering
questions there but I thought this one
might just make an interesting video
because I have covered it in bits and
pieces in previous videos but we'll go
into it a little bit more here it's a
simple question abav sorry I'm
butchering that pronunciation I'm sure
but he asked he's designing a piece of
be trace for 70 to 80m so substantial
amount of current how should I design
the trace from the connectors to a
mosfet uh device for this current radi
is it possible to use only one layer and
it's a through hole device so we won't
get go into like the rou in and all that
so is it possible using only one layer
so I presume that he's asking that
because well he's got other routing
constraints and doesn't want to chew up
the bottom or internal planes assuming
it's even a multi-layer board it might
just be a doublesided don't know because
it is a through hole device so could
only be a double-sided board but you
know you don't know anyway the first
thing you want to do is you want to um
basically when you pass current through
any uh conductor of course copper is on
the PCB is a conductor and of course HS
law if you got resistance at a certain
current it's going to drop voltage using
own's law so that could be a problem but
we won't go into the design aspects of
like the voltage drop and things like
that but that is one of the things you
have to consider in the design but also
the power dissipation is going to heat
up i squ r losses um I you know the
current squar times the resistance of uh
the trace and you can have a big giant
plane it's still going to have
resistance on it and you have to sort of
like take that into account one of the
things you really need to do uh with
this is like there's a few rule of thumb
things you can have little you know
simple charts and stuff like that which
give you a rough Trace diameter for a
certain current and stuff like that but
there's much more engineering and
science actually behind it so you really
need at a minimum you need a PCB Trace
calculator and the one I use here I'll
show you it's satin p CB design you it's
free you can just download it I'll leave
a link down below and it's got all sorts
of stuff like it's got tons of stuff I
won't go into all the stuff it's got but
one of the things it does is it's got
conductor properties here so we can put
in the various parameters up here and
then it will give us the conducted DC
resistance how much resistance that
Trace has got so we can use hes law know
we can calculate the voltage well no it
already calculates the voltage drop for
us there it is um and the maximum
conductor current that it's capable of
but there's a lot of stuff that goes
into this so let's have a look there are
three major things that dictate how much
maximum current a particular PCB does
that mean though what is the maximum
diameter of the trace obviously you've
got a little thin you know 10 C Trace
it's not going to carry much current at
all so the thicker The Wider Trace you
make it the more current because it's
going to lower the resistance it's going
to have less i squ r losses it's going
to it's not going to heat up as much so
that's the first thing but not all
copper is the same so the second thing
is the thickness of the copper because
PCB comes in different copper
thicknesses and none of this metric
rubbish we want Imperial for this um
because we work in Imperial and when you
order your uh PCB for manufacturer you
should be specifying the copper
thickness of every layer in your PCB
Stack Up and I've done videos on Stack
Up In You know not specifically on that
but you've covered it in previous videos
but basically every piece of copper in
your let you know if it's an eight layer
board you've got eight layers of copper
in there and you can individually
specify the thickness of each layer the
copper in your PCB stack up it's called
so if you've got uh a if you want to run
a like real heavy current on one
particular plane or one particular layer
of your board then you can specify okay
I want much thicker copper on that layer
and the manufacturer will do that for
you and if you don't specify any of this
they'll just give you their standard
stack up which might be 1 oz copper is
which is 35 Micron thickness you can
change it over to metric there it is
there um 1 oz copper is your standard
thickness but if you've got a multi
layer board they'll often use half oun
thick or maybe even qu o th copper on
those inner layers so if you don't
specify it the manufacturer is just po
luck what you actually get you won't get
more than 1 oun because you know
Copper's expensive right and they want
to keep the cost low so you standard
board you won't get any more thickness
than 1 o copper on any of the layers on
your board um if unless you specifically
ask for it you might jump up to usually
you jump up to 2 oun for that so it's
twice as thick um so it's going to be
lower resistance and you know like once
you get to like four five something like
that that's really thick as right really
thick and expensive copper and you do
that for like really exotic um you know
applications if you want really high
current board it's got to be really
dense for example you can't make your
Trace really thick cuz you got tight in
there do say. could even get an exotic
one even thicker than that and the third
parameter which is not as important but
it matters um is whether or not the
Copper's on the top external layer of
the PCB so the top of the bottom or
whether it's in the internal layers of
the PCB different thermal properties
because if your conductor is dissipating
heat and it's wedged in the middle of
the sandwiched in the middle of the
boorder like this F right so the heat
can't get out so the temperature will
like it'll that heat will get trapped it
can't escape so it'll get hotter which
will increase its resistance and right
well doesn't run away but right it's
it's get higher resistance the hotter it
gets whereas the outer layers they're
going to cool more easily and also the
solder mask over the tracers can make a
difference as well if you got solder
mask over there that's an insul
insulative layer on your copper so that
can matter um as well but generally you
know unless you're really getting down
to the nuts and bolts of it you know
there's only two major ones the
thickness of the copper thickness of the
copper and the width of the copper but
the layer stack matters too but it's not
like a copper Trace just suddenly bursts
open and catches on fire or breaks you
know because you can actually use a PB
as a fuse a PB Trace as a fuse and
there's bit Art and Science that goes
into that I might have even covered that
in a video somewhere can't really
remember it doesn't just suddenly
magically stop carrying current it just
gets hotter and hotter and it might
delaminate from the board it might you
know it glows red hot or whatever right
so it's all about the temperature rise
that you're willing to tolerate in your
design now you can see here this is one
of the parameters 20 C temperature rise
me personally I prefer G temperat rise
if I'm doing these calculations but it's
there's no reason for that it's just my
own personal rule of thumb um for a 10
see temperature rise and then there's
ambient temperature as well if you want
to get really fancy pancy okay so let's
actually start using this um to do a
basic thing let's say we've got Standard
1 oz copper here okay and we've got no
pla in okay the platin there's another
thing that matters it's not only the
solder mask over the top that can impact
but most boards are usually solder mask
over be copper or SM OBC so you can just
say bare PCB like that okay and we're
going to use external layer so we've got
an external PCB layer here and uh we got
a bare PCB which will have the solder
mask over the top it doesn't really
matter whether it have the solder mass
in fact they don't even have the solder
mass in this calculation but technically
can make a little Teensy bit of
difference so 1 oz copper and 10 ms is
ridiculous right so let's go for 100 th
right 100 th Trace 100 Mil Trace not
that and the conductor length here um we
don't know so depends on your particular
layout so the total resistance will
depend on the conductor length of course
and then that will determine the voltage
drop which you're willing to tolerate CU
that might be part of your electrical
design rather than the You' got two
issues here you got electrical and
thermal um as well and you might even
have high frequency stuff that's why SK
depth over here and skin skin depth
percentage anyway we won't definitely
won't go into that we're talking about
like DC current so 100 Ms plain present
no parallel conductors doesn't matter
for purposes here ambient temperature
we're just going to run that it's an
external layer so let's solve that okay
there you go it's 5 mli ohms there for
100 Mil wide trace and that can do a
nominal 3 . 28 amp so Gally at so if you
try to put 3.3 amps through 100 Mil wide
conductor we can convert that to metric
for you metric Fanboy 2.54 mmers there
you go it's going to at 3.3 amps it's
going to rise 10 C if it's on the
outside of your board is that acceptable
to you I know right so we're talking 80
amps here okay 80 what was it 70 to 80
70 let's take 80 amps metric right 25 mm
wide Trace right A 1 in Trace let's
actually solve that with 1 oz copper is
only going to do 12.6 amp so we're going
to have to Let's double it to 2 oz
copper okay so twice as thick copper so
we go from
12.67% and a 25 mm wide Trace like a 1
in wide Trace you probably don't want to
make it any wider than that on your PCB
right that takes up a massive massive
around amount of room so you might want
to actually uh you know put some solder
coat over the top of that right so you
can get a tin plate uh for example so
you know but unfortunately right this
plating thickness doesn't actually take
into account um like the template uh
process that's really hard to control so
if you go I want if you go to your PCP
manufacturer I want a template on that
um please then it's the control
thickness is me it's I've done a
dedicated video on that and how much
difference a tin plate actually makes
I've done some practical experiments on
that I link it in you can't really
control that but you might be able to
tell them to actually you know PL it a
certain thickness or whatever right but
once again this is big increase in in
manufacturing cost PCB manufacturers
would do absolutely anything the good
ones will they'll bend over backwards
they'll do anything you tell them to do
they'll charge you for it okay so if we
did that you know 1 o uh pla in
thickness we're still only at 40 o right
we still have to double that even like
we're still not there so let's just go
to a random PCB manufacturer here and
you'll notice that they go from 1 o up
to
13 trade they actually tell you minimum
track space requirements and all that
sort of stuff but they say they can do
13 O and they they can but generally
they're only going to go up to I think
this manufacturer only says like 3 o
kind of like our standard process so you
know anything over that they're going to
like order the material special they may
not have it in stock and they're going
it's going to cost you an absolute
fortune and all that sort of stuff right
and then you've got the surface finish
over here okay and generally you're
going to get a what's called a hassle
right which is a hot air surface level
uh finish so they just put basically
solder coat um that's that's basically
what it is and then you're familiar with
like the gold flashboards the you know
the immersion gold and I Sean my boards
before that have come with immersion
silver for example you can get immersion
tin and you can get you know there's all
sorts of stuff and you get nickel PL and
all sort of stuff right plain copper you
generally as I said um if you want
here's an example if you want your
tracers to be coed with soer coat like
this one here okay yeah that can
increase your current handling capacity
but it's not really a Control process
they they can't really yeah it might be
hot air finished you might be able to
see like you know like a few Bubbles and
stuff in there right right it's not it's
not really a controlled that controlled
a process you can't really guarantee
what your resistance is going to be it's
just hot air Ser it's whatever the
process just happens to be but it can
increase your current now the way you do
that is to remove the solder mask you
have to remove the solder mask over that
Trace otherwise when they do the board
you're just going to end up with that uh
bare copper because as I said uh the
copper under here is just bare copper
it's SM OBC solder mask over bare copper
I'll show you see if I scrape away that
uh solder mask there you can see that is
just bare copper underneath there so the
process that they do happens after they
put the solder mask on so if you want
your tracers coed like that um in
whatever you know uh surface finish that
you actually uh choose here whatever
surface finish you choose if you want
that coded you have to leave the solder
mask off so back at 1 oz copper here
like I'm I'm being tight us Dave I'm
only allowing for a 10 C temperature
rise right so if we go to 20 rise like
that okay you go from 12 to 17 amps
there right and then if you go up to
your 4 oz thick copper you know but
you're still not getting a huge amount
extra there I'm willing to make it go
50 above ambient so your PCB Trace will
be at 70 right remember this is
temperature rise above the ambient
temperature okay solve we get to our 80
amps okay so if you want to do this
single layer and you're willing to Fork
out for 4 o copper uh board material and
you could maybe get it it's going to
rise 50 C but once again these are
actually calculations there's no well
there are there are formulas for this
and this is where it gets it from but
it's based on really empirical data and
this goes on like it tells you here this
is based on the IPC standard 2152 with
modifiers um and you have to go read the
IPC standards there's actually two um
IPC standards that cover this there's
the earlier uh triple 2 one standard
here and I I just Googled the first
thing I got was this Altium article here
anyway they linked to some calculators
I'm not sure which ones but yeah
basically there's two different
standards that'll cover the same thing
the IPC triple 21 and they note here
that the triple 21 that was based on
charts in the linked articles someone
way back in the early days did some
charts like actually old school charts
and they've got them in the standards
you can look it up they handdrawn charts
or whatever or they you know these
plotted charts and that's where
everyone's gotten sort of this data from
back in the old days but there is
another standard the IPC 5122 which is
more accurate I don't remember the exact
details it's been a long time since I've
looked at the standards in this regard
but just realized that the formulas are
kind of based on sort of like
experimental um you know measured data
so it's a bit how you're doing but it's
the best we got now interestingly let's
see if internal layer actually makes a
difference here and it it doesn't right
internal or external layer actually
doesn't make a difference here which is
interesting because in practice it it
kind of sort of does although once your
board's heated up you know like it
depends on your like your thermal but
the physical uh part of your design
matters like if you've got a fan in
there and you're blowing over the board
for example the outer tracers yeah they
can get better um thermal properties
than the inner uh traces in there but
it's obviously not taken into account in
the IPC 22 2152 standard and it's going
to matter whether or not you actually
whether your Trace is adjacent to like a
big plane for example because you can
get conduction between your little trace
and a tiny little thin prepreg in there
um there's not much different distance
between thickness between your uh trace
on say an in layer and the uh for
example if You' got on the outside it's
a bit further apart and this is why they
actually have a PL present thing here
right so if we click yes here then this
is our current carrying trace and you
can see it's jumped up it's it's quite
substantial it's jumped up from 78 amps
here for once again A 1 in wide uh trace
for a 50 C rise you know and and then
it jumps up to 121 amps and we're not
running the current through that plane
it's not going through this big blue
cober plane down here it's purely the
proximity this is why they give you yeah
here it is distance to plane right 10 10
ms here so metric you know it's only 25
mm away so if we actually go from 25 mm
to 1 mm there it should like it it goes
up a bit right cuz this is all thermal
conduction through to the plane even
though the current is not running
through that plane Simply Having the
plane present it's it's more better
anyway as you can see like there's a lot
of stuff involved in this if you really
want to go down the rabbit hole but in
answer um to the question here um is it
possible to use only one layer and the
answer is probably no not really um not
unless you use like massive traces and
you allowed for you know a huge
temperature rise and stuff like that so
yeah you'd be using a you know at least
two traces possibly uh part of your
internal uh plane as well um to get 70
80 amps is quite uh substantial or you
could uh as I said you could like tin
plate you could solder plate the top of
those traces and that increases yeah
that's kind of crazy let's see what else
is in the
video manufacturer and then if you
really need like a compact design and
you don't like have layout room on your
board uh you might consider like a bus
bar approach um I found one example here
you can see that this board uses these
physical bus bars which W run right
across the board like this and of course
you can get you know you can make those
thickers right and uh but you know you
have to get those like custom
manufactured and you'd have to go to a
company that manufactures uh those so
you know a specialist manufacturer that
uh makes those but yeah bus bars um
they're you know quite common on like
really dense um you know highly
populated boards so it's definitely
worth considering something like that
like this one here's got like three um
ones in this particular case it's
carrying uh Power to like all all the
devices across uh the board like this
but you know you can get one just one
wait but you know what I just realized
is the whoa
squirrels bro what the
[__] silly ah silly ah
bro so we
don't we don't actually have to
run the ESC to the board at all I didn't
even I don't know why I didn't clue that
clue into
that that thing is literally just going
to go straight to the power
supply that that simplifies things
considerably cuz that means
that
[Music]
um the only thing that really needs to
be on the board that carries High
current is the
mosfet that does make things easier I
didn't real I didn't really
think about
that today I'm going to teach you how to
find
okay hold on I'm going clean up this
[Music]
food
e
e e
so basically I guess the reason why you
say basically how much you want the
thing to heat up is because basically
well I don't know what kind of calcul
they're doing
but the only reason why it would reach
steady state is that basically the the
power loss across the trace or whatever
ends up equaling the dissipation rate
that's the only time when the
temperature would be constant otherwise
we just keep
increasing
so the main question is
basically um little let me look at the
the so yeah so the esc's we're actually
going to just not
even we just don't even need
this like these can just go directly to
the power supply
this is actually way better
oh and
actually now that I'm thinking about it
we might
want to use this third pin here which is
fine but we might want to just because I
don't remember if that's 5 Vols
or or 3 volts let me see do I have the
ESC in my
bomb when did I put this in
oh that's the
um oh yeah I know what that
is this is old man this is real old yeah
here's the ESC oh wait
does this say the pin
out yeah
try
to where does it say what the output of
the
maybe you can just give
it where's the Pico pin
out I always forget if it's vbus or V I
think it's vsis and you give it five
volts but I can't remember
wait but why don't I just use a
um
voltmeter we can just use a volt meter
really
quick you take the
ESC you don't plug in any of
that okay so let's do
that oh the power supply is freaking
bolted to that thing that's okay it's
not but
it actually it's not I I just realized
it not
okay so we're just going to let me get
the
because it' be really handy to be able
to use the uh if there's this 5 volts
regulator on the uh ESC might as well
use it right um so we need to hook this
up I that means I need my wigging School
d
okay
[Music]
um so let just put this
in I was sort of the under the
impression that stranded would be better
but apparently it's
not
okay now we just need to
take I'm pretty sure it's 5 vol
I'm also pretty sure
that that that is what you
want okay so you turn this on and you
turn uh and you plug you plug this thing
in and we should see
5.4 let's see
um
uh how do I Power my Raspberry Pi Pico W
without using the
USB I think it's V sis
5.5 at the maximum okay so that's
perfect so
then so then all right so we are going
to use this thing
so where's my M I don't need my
mouse
so jeez man this takes way longer than
you think it's going
to
um the question is you kind of want to
tie these together together
right so this is going to be 5
volts okay
I think though that you may burn it out
if you connect both the
USB and the CIS
is it a problem if the USB and the vus
uh pin are
vs are connected at the same time
oh okay
okay so then we're
good
um and we do want to just
delete basically all of this because
this just
goes directly to the
how the hell do you there you
go okay yeah so the esc's 5 Vols is tied
together all right so this goes to the
power
supply these do get the 12
volts all right so let's draw this out
then we need what's the diode I think
it's 1 n504 so let's just add that
a shift
f 1 n
5504 what is it called 540
they
recommended
what this seems
weird there we go
is it through
hole
yeah okay so then this thing needs
another terminal hold on let me get my
mouse we're almost
[Music]
done so then we just
need one of
these so
uh okay so
uh let's just um
um I forget but I'm pretty sure that's
the gate then this goes
to
BCC what the
hell and then this I think that's the
source and
then I do not know what decoupling
capacitors are at all
bro no idea all right so that's what I
think it is but I think we actually I
think we're doing this
right so then we uh take all
this and this is going to be um
solenoid all right not so bad
okay oh wait and then we did not oh we
did right so let's save
this and let's uh let's uh import the
changes
okay
now where does this go this goes out
here and then these
dodes or
maybe oh wait we want to get that close
right move this
away I don't know what what do these go
to
is that 12 volts I can't I can't
remember I feel like that's just
ground is that that's
ground
right wait but pin one of
the pin one
of it doesn't have numbers
what is
what that's it dude I want to know which
is which but anyways not none of them
are tied to ground but this is
ground wait where am I I'm so twisted
bro
wait where's the other
diod honestly we could just put this
[__]
anywhere the auto router will figure it
out just do it Bud we'll need to fix the
design rules right that's a big thing
that's left to do
see what's up with the oh
okay so the other thing to do is
uh use the
calculator to
determine Trace
constraints now the question is how how
much temperature increase can I really
do okay because it's really just the
transistor that it's going to need a big
Trace yeah it's kind of sad that there's
no additive process to make PCB traces
yeah so what if we did
this so wait where does the oh yeah okay
so wait what if we took these guys and
we move them real close here
then route unroute all it's so
[Music]
awesome okay
so yeah that's oh wait is this
the that's the
gate that's okay that's V12 and then
this
and what is this this goes to the okay
so this needs to go like
that then maybe we can
do
this we basically just want to make sure
that the
that's V so this is +
12 what are what the heck are these
going
to these are going to the the sensors
right
but then why are they getting 12
volts that must be
ground I got to get ready to
go this is
wait this is ground and why are these
getting 12
volts I think that's
wrong so
the four pin this thing yeah this is not
getting this is getting 3.3 Vols so we
need a
um I think you I think you're just
supposed to do
this oh wait
wait what's going on with oh wait wait
we had
one oh my
gosh this is
insane oh my
God what the hell
bro wait but that doesn't do anything
how do you access the layer there's
something under this
thing I don't even want to deal with
that how do you get to
that you can't select the
parent you can only select the
text how [__] silly is that these
editors are such
so
annoying okay but how did he how did we
do that we just we just
okay it's just like a special one so you
just do this and you just change this to
3v3 and you copy this and you place it
here and you paste it
here okay and now
and now
this goes to
that as does yeah that wait did we ever
do did we actually do that I guess we
must
have 3v3 is this I guess it's not case
sensitive it's probably for the
better all right so now we auto route
it okay so we get the 12 Vols
this then this what does this go to that
connects to
ground there's a via
there what is
that oh okay
um so 12 volts comes in
here it goes over to
there
this goes over to to there
so where's the trans this is the
transistor this is the
gate
source and it flows through
here then where does this connect to
ground
or this doesn't connect to ground this
just connects to
that what does this connect
to no that's
ground so goes like
this because we kind of
want we're trying to make the
because I'm pretty sure the entire Loop
needs to be able to handle the current
so you want to make the path that is
actually going to have high current go
through it
be
short
for e
okay
right CU these connect to
ground all right so wait um
okay sit there that's good that's
good because now we can make this track
oops I don't think you I think you have
to do it all with rules but now this is
going to be a big old thick track the
problem is
you don't really have that much
room kind of a
problem where's that
um yeah 10 amps yeah yeah yeah sure
so wait if I change this to 15 does it
okay it
changes see that's the crazy part nine
what what happens if we change let's
just like see what happens if you take
design is it design
yeah this needs to be
six wait six or was it like nine was
nine look what happens if I change this
to nine
[Laughter]
it's totally
unsatisfiable 9 mm dude that's like
so big and and I don't even think our
board
setting somewhere in here we probably
have the um
I mean that's just so
goofy maybe if you have four
layers let's
see oh there's the import ch
can I move
that you can't change this how do you
change it to uh
it's all just Json
I want that software though because okay
wait hold
on oh wait three for external layers and
air okay so we actually need it to be
three so let me okay there's that and
then this is for two
oh wait let's say we can deal with a
third a
20 okay so we need to make it two so
let's change this design Ru to
2.5 so these are the Nets okay cool all
right so now unroute all this is going
to be like the last thing I do because I
got to
go oh my God it's the most annoying
thing
it's still like look dude I can't do
this what seven
failed for
I don't think that that was the only
thing
though oh we need more clearance
too a bro
failed
11 with five
vs all right so we couldn't get
signal what
else that's the only line I see
though oh all of this I just have to
move this
out oh okay wait so we need to just all
right but so that's four oh and this is
where all the other ones come
from so if we just um all right so I'll
keep working on this I totally forgot
how much time just actually getting the
electronics down
takes but I feel
like I feel like I know what's going on
now